-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WarioWare: Touched!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/wariowareincds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Game's design is the right kind of crazy.
 Interesting unlockables.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Super-repetitive microgames get old almost immediately.
 Not as much fun as the other games in the series.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 11, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 8.2, 68 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 3,558 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Intelligent Sys.
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Feb 14, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
WarioWare: Touched! leans way too heavily on the DS touch screen for its own good. 

  You know, if you're absolutely dying for a new WarioWare fix, Nintendo's new DS installment, WarioWare: 
 Touched!, fits the bill. It does most of the things the other games in the series do, only it does 
 them with the touch screen instead of a D pad or any buttons. Unfortunately, that's also where 
 this installment sort of falls apart. It's a good product, overall, but its overreliance on touching 
 means that many of the microgames have you doing the same sort of activity again and again. WarioWare's 
 greatest strength has always been its variety. But without that same variety here, WarioWare: Touched! 
 gets old fast.  

          WarioWare: Touched! is good, but it gets old fast.     

  The same basic story concept from the first game applies here. Wario loves money. Hey, who doesn't, 
 right? In this installment, Wario manages to get his hands on some kind of newfangled dual-screen 
 handheld game system, so he quickly sets his old plan back into motion: exploiting the locals to 
 create microgames for him so he can keep all the profit for himself. Touched! doesn't really have 
 a story arc, per se, but each set of games is associated with a character, and each character has 
 an intro and an epilogue that bookends his or her levels.  

  The gameplay also sticks closely to the WarioWare concept. Your job is to play through these microgames, 
 one after the next. You never know which one you're going to see next, and each clocks in somewhere 
 around the five-second mark. Each has one simple task that you're asked to perform, and all these 
 tasks involve the touch screen or the DS's microphone. You'll pop balloons with the stylus. You'll 
 pop bubbles with the stylus, too. You'll even have to pop some of those little air bubbles that 
 come wrapped around carefully shipped items with the stylus as well. Popping aside, there is some 
 variety here, but most of the games involve tapping the screen in a specific spot, dragging an 
 item around the screen with the stylus, drawing lines on the screen, or some combination of all 
 three. The microgames stick to the same style found in other games in the series, and some of them 
 have a great deal of charm. Also like the other offerings in the series, Touched! throws a bone 
 to nostalgia fiends in the form of a section of games that are modeled after classic Nintendo games. 
 In one of the Mario-themed ones, you'll have to poke a bunch of Super Mario Bros. question blocks 
 to get coins. A Legend of Zelda-style game has you prodding fairies before time expires. Metroid 
 makes an appearance, too, in the form of a contest where you must drag metroids off of Samus and 
 keep them away until time expires.  

  With the constant poking, dragging, and drawing these contests throws at you, it's easy to get 
 good at them awfully fast. If you're cool under pressure, were any good at the previous WarioWare 
 games, and are handy with a stylus, you'll get through the entire game in around an hour and a 
 half. Of course, you won't have seen every single microgame or unlockable object if you just blaze 
 through it. Most of the unlockable items are just weird little toys to mess around with, though 
 some of them are really, really neat. One is a little electronic harmonica that plays when you 
 blow into the microphone. (The buttons on the system are used to play different notes.)  

          Not even a new batch of stages based on old Nintendo games can help here.     

  The 
 look of the game hasn't changed much from the original GBA WarioWare. The art style is still completely 
 insane, though the sequences that lead in to and out of each level aren't terribly interesting. 
 The music that plays throughout each level speeds up and gets more and more manic as you play, 
 and it syncs up with the action well. The music in Ashley's stage even features full-on English 
 vocals, which is a nice touch.  

  WarioWare: Touched! leans way too heavily on the DS touch screen for its own good. Touching may 
 be good, but in WarioWare's case, touching is practically all you'll do, so unlike the WarioWare 
 you know and love, it gets boring. If the games had a little more variety, it wouldn't be a problem. 
 But as it stands, too many of these games have you doing the same type of activity, which isn't 
 exciting for very long. Fans of the series are advised to wait for the next GBA installment in 
 the series, WarioWare: Twisted. That one's already out in Japan, and it's much, much better.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (261 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Axman89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare has been eluding classification for quite some time. It's safe to say that it has defined 
 it's own genre: All-You-Can-Eat Micro-Game Buffet. 
  
  WarioWare is famous clusters of completely independent, 5-second micro games that seem to exist 
 within the storyline for no apparent reason whatsoever. This is what makes the game so campy and 
 spledid, albeit a bit shallow. 
  
  WarioWare: Touched groups the teeny-tiny micro-games by what task you are preforming with your 
 stylus. There's poking, cutting, dragging, scribbling, rubbing, and revolving, plus groups of "the 
 best" from each cluster of games, and a cluster of games based on Nintendo Games gone by.
  
  The game is endlessly addictive despite not having a legitimate storyline, but that's okay. 
 All you really want are those strings of little bite-sized games; the rest doesn't really matter.
 
  
  After about an hour or so of play, it'll be about challenging your own high scores, and the weak 
 story will be all but forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Little_Socrates
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 5, 2009 1:51 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Touched! will pretty much cover everything a DS WarioWare should be. The microgames 
 are fun, and the humor is certainly intact. Everything that is wacky about WarioWare can be found 
 here; describing WarioWare with anything less than a video seems inadequate to me, so if you don't 
 know what WarioWare's microgames are like, find out somewhere else; they're good fun, and very, 
 very strange.
  
  The problem, however, is the length. I completed WarioWare: Touched! in approximately five hours. 
 The ramping difficulty and high scores may be enough to pull some players back, but they weren't 
 enough for me. This could've been helped easily with some fun multiplayer modes, but sadly there 
 is no multiplayer whatsoever.
  
  However, the "Toy Room" actually does have some minigames that I could see myself playing for a 
 while. The good ones remind me of some of the better flash games I've played on ArmorGames, Newgrounds 
 and the like. The problem, however, stems from the fact that I wouldn't pay to play any of those 
 games, and there are only five or so toys that you'll play with for more than thirty seconds.
 
  
  If you're a huge WarioWare fan, and have been pulled in by the replayability factors of the games 
 other than multiplayer, check this one out. If you haven't played WarioWare before, this probably 
 is the worst place to start other than the new DSi game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_To_The_C
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 8:42 pm PT
Review:  As an avid fan of the WarioWare series, this was one of the first games that I purchased after 
 getting a DS. However, after the first few days, I realized that Nintendo had gone a little downhill 
 with this installment.
  
  As it is, the game is pretty fun up to the point of completion. There is a variety of mini-games 
 to play with a number of prizes to tinker with after winning.
  
  The problem is, the game lasted no longer than those first few days. The main storyline of the 
 game took no time at all to beat. They were also extremely simple in comparison to the past games 
 in the WarioWare series.
  
  The mini games that could sometimes be won from the main game were a let down as well. They just 
 weren't addictive enough and quickly got bored.
  
  As for the rest of the so-called toys that could be won, most of the collection consisted of objects 
 that performed a single action and then was done. The collection itself was quite small, as well, 
 and was completed in very small effort.
  
  If you're a very big fan of WarioWare, this game is worth the the purchase if you buy it at a used-copy 
 price, (as I did.) If not, there are many more alternatives to try than this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louielouiee
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  Just insane! I can't stop playing this game! The more I play, tha more I wanna play.
  I haven't played GBA's Wario, but when I first saw the game I knew I needed to have it, and play 
 it untill my fingers'd bleed. I confess, I just bought my DS to play Wario. AH! BUSTED! By the 
 way, I'm almost buying a Wii for the same reason.
  This game made me what Katamari did when I first played it, shocked me with a wave of originality 
 and fun. Great music and sound effects, great characters, simple, funny and essential story - not 
 that they're story games, but hey, you gotta know why're you playing, right?
  The way they use the name of Mario and make fun of, and the way they make fun of almost all of 
 otaku's things is just so cool. I dunno how can someone not love this game.
  Nintendo's concept grew to me again with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CazmoV
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  I bought this game when I was visiting my Nan in Scotland. I didn't used to be a hardcore gamer. 
 I'm just turning one now. Back then I would maybe play a game 1 hour a day, 2 hours maximum. But 
 either way, I didn't play much. 
  So yeh, I bought the game, and about 3 days later, on the way back from Scotland in the car, I 
 completed it. However, I'd just completed all the characters mini games etc. If you click on a 
 character, it will give you a hint of how many mini-games you need to complete to unlock another 
 toy. But even that didn't take me any longer than 2 hours.
  Other than the shortness, it is a fairly good game. Fun, crazy mini-games which last about 5 seconds 
 long, and about 250 of them. The funny little cut scenes and the awesome scripting all make up 
 for the shortness and create an above average game.
  
  Fair play Wario ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolkid93
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Like I said wario ware: Touched! for the ds is a good game but It does get boring after a while.
 
  This is a fun game but I got a little tired of replaying the same games. The mini games are pretty 
 funny with different characters with different mini games that will have you to either use the 
 Stylus or for you to blow into the Mic on your DS system.
  I still play this game and it sometimes bores me and it sometimes doesn't.
  
  Here are some 
 pros and cons:
  
  Pros: One Thing for sure is when you first start playing the game It is indeed adicting.
  
  
 Cons: The mini games are fun... After playing it for a while but you will have MIXED reactions 
 with the game.
  You'll get tired of playing the same mini games.
  Some of the games that you'll earn after accomplishing scoring over the goal points with a character 
 (like 15, 25, etc) shouldn't even have been put on the game.
  
  Wario ware touched is a good game but sometimes it just bores me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkan119
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  When i bought the DS, I had the option of having this game come free with it. I accepted. BIG MISTAKE. 
 It took only a couple of hours to finish. It was a repetitive, (although I admit very original) 
 game, that made me feel like the DS itself was a complete waste of 100.
  
  As for the graphics... they could have been mistaken for something that was from the gameboy colour! 
 They were just moving pictures that could have been drawn by a 4 year old.
  
  The gameplay was'nt that bad. It made the best possible use of the touch screen, while the only 
 use for any of the buttons was to pause. It can't be done on any other console.
  
  The story... what story? there isn't one! There are some games that do'nt need one, such as racing 
 ones, but ones of this nature really need one.
  
  So to summarise this game:
  
  The Good:
  Oringinal, simple gameplay.
  
  
  The bad:
  Very short.
  
  Poor graphics.
 
  
  many of the minigames are frustrating.
  
  Once you have finished it ( which you will in a few hours of gameplay) there is little more you 
 can do.
  
  Purely reliant on the touch screen, there are no uses for any of the buttons.
  
  
  
  So to put it simply, this game SUCKS. Do not buy it unless you have rented and enjoyed 
 it first.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reviewman97
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  Good
  -A little humor there and there
  -The minigames work well on the touch screen
  -There are differnet stories
  
  Bad
  -Can get a little boring with the same minigames sometimes
 
  -The bonus toys are fun, but get old. Fast.
  -The stories could have been better
  
  
  Wario returns for his forth installment of WarioWare. The humor in the game is not as best as the 
 other ones but still it works. I was surpised that all the minigames work well on the touch screen 
 when most games don't. And with many difffernet stories to play it's pretty cool.
  But, it can get boring when you play the same minigame but just a little harder. In the game you 
 get these little toys for compelting a story, they get old fast. It's a game with minigames and minigames 
 have mega minigames. Also the stories could have been better. But over all, it's a good little game 
 to play when your bored but I would say first get the one on the Wii, before you get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJWildduck
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  WarioWare: Touched! is an another addition to the WarioWare line-up. More of the wicked microgames, 
 and now with the touchscreen support, so expect a lot of touch/scratch/draw tasks to complete. 
 The only problem there is - it's not as funny as its predecessors.
  
  WarioWare always was (and hopefully will stay that way) about spontaneous, yet very humorous levels, 
 that were dubbed 'microgames', because of their short-lasting nature. Every level is different, 
 but lasts only for a couple of seconds, hence the nickname. They go one after another, until some 
 sort of a goal is completed. In other words, this is a wild compilation of very different types 
 of games, spiced up with a plot that connects them all into one.
  
  The plot in Touched! is simply undescribable. It's a wild mix of events, every one of them is filled 
 with these microgames, and most of them are completely out of place, making them look even more 
 stupid, yet funny as hell.
  
  But in comparison with the previous titles - everything what's happening on the screen between 
 the levels does look dull, especially when it's not hurrying to move on to the next scene or location. 
 The game is filled with needless dialogues, and that slows down the overall fast-paced crazyness 
 big time.
  
  WarioWare: Touched! uses DS's technical features all the way - even the microphone is used. The 
 overall gameplay is entertaining, and the amount of tasks is very, very large. Even after unlocking 
 every character in the game (they're here to move the plot further) , it still has a lot to offer. 
 For example, only a half of the available microgames is opened during the first walkthrough.
  
  If you're fed up with the other WarioWare titles - Touched! does a good job with providing 
 some new content. Yet, the game's presentation is not even half as good. If you're looking for 
 some additional fun - Touched! can be a great addition to your collection, but if you want a good 
 stand-alone title - better go get the GBA predecessors first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Now, this game is cool and everything, but it's just a little bit saddening because not all of the 
 minigames are cool, and I think that the gameboy version was much better (a review for that game 
 is coming up soon) . Like I was saying, this game isn't perfect, and some of the games are just stupid 
 and I really don't understand why they were put in this game in the first place. Like, take the minigame 
 Crowd Control for instance. So, you've got this dude who really just dresses oddly and he has a bunch 
 of women all around him. Your goal is to blow into the microphone to blow them away. Now, what blowing 
 does to people is definetily not send them flying. There is one minigame that's just gross. You take 
 clothes off this guy until you get to his underpants. But if you take the underpants off, then he's 
 naked, except for a leaf covering his rod. Gross! I mean, like we really needed to see that. Another 
 really stupid one is a boss minigame called Rainbow Juice. You're this really weird trash can looking 
 guy who looks truamatized. He walks around and when his lid is open, you're supposed to rub the rainbow 
 so that parts from the rainbow land in him. After getting enough, he turns into a tree instantly. How 
 that happened is way beyond me. Let's talk one more called Fatapult. Your goal here is to drop a 
 skinny guy on one end of a teeter totter, then the fat guy crashes into a big bell. What this accomplishes, I'll 
 never know. Another huge problem is that some of the games just aren't fun and you get sick of them 
 almost instantly. Well, I guess that is all I can say, because there's not much left to say about 
 this game.
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingdom3455
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Although most of us prefer our plump red hatted plumber, Wario isn't so bad either! There is many 
 plots to go with the character, and each character has certain games. 9 Volt and 18 Volt are retro 
 gamers, the Kat and Ana consist of scribbling mini games. And of course, all these games use the 
 stylus and touch screen
  
  You start off right at the end of Wware twisted, where he ends up losing his gba and game to a 
 man in the sewer, and when he comes up, he offers the ds of gba. Thats where twisted starts. The 
 main menu is where all the applications and people are kept and you play the mini games that are 
 given. Simple, yet fun.
  
  After completing so many mini games (without dying) on a certain character you get a boss stage. 
 If you beat that stage you win the challenge.
  
  If you are unfamiliar with wario ware, now is you chance to pick it up on the ds. It may seem lame, 
 but don't underestimate our fat Mario imitation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coded12
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware touched is a game based around mini games which have you using the touch screen and 
 stylus to complete small tasks such as ten pin bowling, archery, detonating fireworks and more. 
 As you complete tasks you will raise a level which will gradually increase the speed at which you 
 must complete the tasks. When you reach around level 50 you will find yourself having to complete 
 tasks in under 5 seconds which keeps your mind focused and tests your reactions.
  
  The game is great fun and is one that you can simply turn on for 10 minutes but still get a lot 
 of enjoyment out of it. The various characters all have different tasks and so will keep you amused 
 for a good time. Also the replayability is excellent because you will want to keep trying to beat 
 your original high score.
  
  If you are looking for a game that can be picked up and played for short periods of time or a game 
 which will provide hours of enjoyment for people of all ages then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashbag
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  Warioware is a stylus based game for the nintendo DS. It offers nothing in the way of a story and 
 there isn't much in the way of a script either. 
  
  But who the hell buys a wario game for the story content, lets be honest, what everyone is really 
 interested in is what its like to play. Let me tell you that in this area Warioware does not disappoint. 
 The game revolves around using your stylus to complete a variety of minigames inorder to unlock 
 new characters and new minigames. This may sound like a simple and rather dull concept but it isn't, 
 It ispossibly one of the most addictive and likeable games available for the DS to date. It is 
 a game that doesnt require you to think or frustrate you, it is a game that you can just pick up 
 and play anytime you feel like it.
  
  The graphics in this game ain't half bad either. The characters are well animated and the presentation 
 of them is clean. The graphics are altogether simplistic but this adds focus to the gameplay itself, 
 which on the whoe is a good thing
  
  The only thing in the way of sound in this game are the sfx, the background music in each minigame, 
 and the occassional whine made by each of the characters. The sfx are clear and the background 
 music adds a good atmosphere to each of the minigames, but the whining characters can become tedious 
 and annoying after a while.
  
  The game itself is very short, there are around 10 characters and each character has about 12 minigames 
 each, this may sound like a lot but you'll probably be able to plough through them all in around 
 4 hours. This may sound like a worthless purchase but with such incredible replay value i promise 
 that you'll keep coming back for more, trying to beat your high scores with each character, when 
 your bored and havent got much else to do, when your travelling a long distance in a car or whatever,...
 
  Its this kind of accessibility that makes this game what it is, addictive and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itsmyrap
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 8:30 am PT
Review:  the graphic may not be as good as the graphics on other ds games, but it makes up for that with 
 good gameplay, it is simple to master, but boss stages are still quite tough, think about Ashley's 
 boss stage, when you have to defeat the alien planet, and you can't get all 100 microgames in one 
 play through, or the toys and souvenirs for that matter, each character has microgames based on 
 diffrent styles, (like rubbing the stylus or tapping the stylus) , there is quite a few souveinirs 
 to get, you get them if you get over 30 points on character, the sovenirs are like yo-yo's and 
 blowing bubbles,
  the most secret ones are pyoro t, whistle a tune, and mona pizza, 
  to get pyoro t you need to unlock every microgame, to get whistle a tune you need to get a rose 
 on every microgame to, get Mona pizza you must start Wario ware touched with Wario ware twisted 
 in the gba slot, tiny secrets are also in the microgames and other stuff, like after you finish 
 the cake micro game, you can blow out the candles, and in the staff credits you can play around 
 with the symbols in the background (the symbols are gamecube symbols and triforce symbols) the 
 game might be easy, but it has some challenges in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  All WarioWare Touched! is is just a bunch of fantastic minigames in one game.
  Choose a character and watch a cutscene of their own story line. All minigames need the stylus 
 to complete. There's balloon popping and so much other stuff I can't say in one review! There is 
 extremely catchy music and great cartoon graphics! 
  There is a multiplayer in this game but not DS to DS, but two people have to use one DS. You may 
 not know what I mean so I'll explain. There's a virtual table tennis where one person uses the 
 L button and your opponent uses the R button to hit. This is great if you don't like sharing your 
 DS1
  How much can I say about WarioWare Touched? It's just a bunch of fun minighmaes all in one DS game. 
 I know a good game when I see one so just take my word for it!
  
  Check out my blog for other reviews on other great (and not so great!) DS games!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 5:36 am PT
Review:  WarioWare is always known to be really wacky, and this is honestly my first one.
  
  I must say, however, that game is beatable right after the purchase- and I mean it! Yeah, it could 
 take longer if you want to unlock every little extra, but it doesn't generally take more than a 
 day for you to finish the whole game.
  
  And though there are more than 100 minigames, most of them are really the same motions most of 
 the time. Maybe when you encounter a new minigame, you'll have to sort of think, but when you know 
 how to beat the specific minigame, it becomes all too easy, and eventually stale. It's all swiping 
 and moving the stylus, as well as the occasional microphone, but for a game that is supposed to 
 have much variety, it feels like a repeat of the previous minigame.
  
  All is not lost, though. The game's presentation is colorful, quirky and wacky, although the story 
 isn't as funny as I thought it would be.
  
  And the extras, well, there are a few good ones, but most of them are duds. Plus, for a game that 
 seems so ideal for multiplayer play, the only way you can do that is to pass around the DS, or 
 play the Ping-Pong game.
  
  It's pretty disappointing, and I don't really advise purchasing it. It's not necessarily bad, but 
 it goes stale quick- and it's notoriously short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Touched is one of the best showcases of what the DS touch screen can do. It follows 
 in the path of the series with minigames that last a maximum time of 5 seconds each and they come 
 at you quickly. The games are just as fun and weird (in a good way) as before, only this time, 
 the touch screen is used for almost everything. GameSpot says the game relies too heavily on the 
 touch screen, but ignore that statement entirely. Touched uses the touch screen like it needs to: 
 for just about everything. There are also some games that have you blowing into the DS microphone, 
 and those are pretty cool as well (if not a bit more tiring) . There are tons of minigames and you 
 will feel obliged to go and play each one individually until you 've cleared them all (like I have!) . 
 There is also a toy room in this one, adding a whole lot more bonuses and even more fun stuff to 
 to do with the touch screen and microphone. Overall, WarioWare: Touched is an all-around great 
 game and is one not to be missed by anyone fitting under the category of casual gamers, but also 
 being a game that anyone with a DS should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  The WarioWare series has mainly been just mini games stored on a big game, and when it got down 
 to it, each one of those WarioWare games (since the GBA) have been a blast to play, and captured 
 our hearts with addiction, WarioWare Touched is another one of those. Surprisingly, this game has 
 a story, well we could call it a story, the lame-ish story shouldn't be an applicable reason as 
 to why you buy this series of games, unless you're weird. But anyway, as you turn on the game and 
 start it up, Wario is walking down the street smiling, saying that his GameBoy Advance SP and GameBoy 
 Advance (which looked like a PSP) was a good deal, then he trips and they fall into a sewer. A 
 mysterious looking fellow with a halo above his head comes up and asks Wario if he had dropped 
 the objects, then he shows the DS, Wario fights him for all 3 but only ends with the DS. He is 
 confused for a few seconds until he knows how to play the DS, and then the intro closes, and the 
 title screen shows, great game begins.
  
  Now, I did say there was a story, but because I said "we could call it a story" is because the 
 minigames you go through the game to unlock and play through are not missions, you'll just meet 
 new characters or critters from the past WarioWare mega-minigames.
  
  Nintendo and Intelligent Systems made good use of the stylus on the game, infact you only need 
 the stylus for the whole game, but it's highly addictive. Rub, wipe, poke, things like that, on 
 the very few mini-mini games you'll be blowing through the microphone, which actually makes a good 
 use of it even though you won't be using it much, it shows how innovative both the DS and the game 
 is.
  
  The graphics are cartoon from start to finish, switched from on to off, cartoon all the way, except 
 for a few of the mini-mini (micro) games, where there'll be a real life looking dog to pet, or 
 a real life looking cat to poke, but nonetheless there isn't anything to complain about, graphically 
 wise, cartoony graphics suit the WarioWare series the most, and for the DS, nothing has visible 
 pixels because of this, so everything is smooth from start to finish. Despite the fact that it 
 is overall cartoony, both companies made good use to textures and such for each micro level and 
 extra.
  
  As for the music, it's somewhat cheesy at some points, but this should be near un-noticable for 
 most, but it's not cheesy enough for you to turn down the volume, or never play the game again. 
 The areas where the music isn't cheesy, is awesome. As you get higher in levels in the game, the 
 music will go faster and faster, which also triggers your timing for your microgames to go faster 
 aswell, just like the graphics, there isn't really anything to complain about other than minor 
 cheesy effects.
  
  Then comes the Story line, there isn't really a story line but I guess Nintendo wanted a mini story 
 as to how WarioWare began, which is basically Wario finding the handheld/controller that you're 
 playing the game with, there isn't really anything to complain about in the Story, since they did 
 a decent job for a game that doesn't even require a story.
  
  If you have good skills at long lasting at this game, and after you beat the game, and also as 
 you progress through the game, you'll unlock extras. Half of these are minnier than the minniest 
 of all micro games in WarioWare, and most of the extras are pathetic or boring, such as the Piano, 
 or Paint in which you have a template for only one guy, Wario, you get the idea. There are a lot 
 of both appauling extras and actually, quite fun extras, WarioWare Touched! is an addictive and 
 fun game, but as for the extras, they don't get greater than satisfactory, since you'll be having 
 much more fun on the actual parts of the game where you progressed through it, which are the mega-micro 
 games.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Value: 9/10
  Story: 9/10
  
  Overall Score: 8.7/10
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAB991
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  The WarioWare franchise can best be identified by two things: juvenile potty humor and seizure-indusing 
 micro-games. Fortunately, both of these are present in full force in WarioWare: Touched!.
  
  Fans of the franchise will get exactly what they want. Crazy micro-games that last a few seconds 
 each, and great usage of the touch screen and microphone. Both are handled nicely, but Touched! 
 doesn't feel as fresh as past WarioWare games like Twisted.
  
  It's still a very solid game, and a great buy for anyone, but if you're expecting a game that rivals 
 the Game Boy Advanced or Wii WarioWare games, then you will be disappointed and left with a handache.
 
  
  Like other WarioWare games, the DS title is extremely high on replay value. It can only take three 
 hours to unlock all the microgames, but once you've gotten them you'll find yourself going back 
 to the game repeadetly. Touched! as incredible staying power. Even if you need to go to eBay and 
 pay a pretty penny for this out-of-print title, it's well worth it.
  
  In conclusion, WarioWare: Touched! may not be as groundbreaking as past WarioWare titles, but it's 
 still an absolute hoot and is a pure joy to play. Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  I'm going to say this right now. WarioWare Touched is absolutely crazy. If you're not familiar 
 with the concept of past WarioWare games here's the lowdown. Each stage in the game consists of 
 various "microgames" thrown at you at random. You must complete the objective of each game to move 
 on to the next. Mess up lose a life, lose all four lives and it's game over. Every so often you 
 are given a boss stage which is a bigger game and when completed give you an extra life back.
 
  
  The way this game introduces the different styles of play is absolutely perfect. The first stage 
 will be all about tapping but then the next will be all about drawing lines. Then the next will 
 be a mix of the two. It gives you time to learn. Now the main "story" of sorts doesn't really last 
 long at all but it's the high scores you want to be going for here. You see the first you play 
 a stage and you beat a boss stage the level will end and you can move on. But if you come back 
 when you beat the boss stage the game will get harder and faster. It's a test of mental and physical 
 as games speed by at a speedy pace so you must figure out what to do then execute the action. It's 
 a really fun game just to try and beat your high score.
  
  There's a new feature here not seen in any other WarioWare games so far. Every time you complete 
 a stage or play every microgame in that characters stage you will unlock a toy. These toys are 
 little more than amusing distractions but some are fun little mini-games to play for a bit. It's 
 an OK distraction from the main game but nothing too great.
  
  The graphical style of the game changes from minigame to minigame and each is presented really 
 well with 9-Volt's stage being the best. It's a level based on old Nintendo game you see but each 
 game is represented with not a pixel out of place and this is performed flawlessly pretty much 
 every where else.
  
  WarioWare Touched is a great game enhanced by the capabilities of the DS. It's worth finding a 
 copy if you have the patience to track it down.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfilth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  I relly like this game, as it's easy to pickup when you just got 5 minutes to spare. Though I also 
 have spend an entire evening trying to beat THAT high score-
  
  What really does it for me, was that the first times I played the game, I just had to figure out 
 how the games worked -and that became a game in itself. After I mastered the basics, I am competing 
 against myself to beat high scores. Normally I do not bother about high scores, but for this game 
 - I just keep playing those small games over and over again.
  
  The humour is very low key and ironic and can still make me chuckle - after having this game for 
 half a year or so. Drawing a line between a dog and a girl, while avoiding hitting a cat and a 
 dog - what HEY is that all about?! Very silly indeed!
  
  If you find it on sale it's a definate must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare Touched! is all around a good game. It has nice graphics, great sound, very good game 
 play and has it's comical moments, and also a ton of minigames. The only bad thing about it is 
 that this game takes about a day to beat. This game also makes great use of the DS' touch screen!
 
  
  The minigames are just right in this game. There are plenty to find so you will be going through 
 story mode a lot. And the multiplayer is great too. You will be having a lot of fun for the first 
 few days that you bought this game. After that, you start thinking on what other games there are 
 for the DS.
  
  All in all this game is for serious WarioWare fans and them only, unless you're new to the series 
 as this is also a great starter game. I recommend this game, only if you're a kid or just lov WarioWare! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grndyfn19
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Recommend ---Any mini-game fan who doesn't have a lot of time on their hands; wants to play a game 
 real fast and then leave
  
  Not Recommend ---People expecting an extensive game with a lot of story elements and new surprises 
 around every turn
  
  The WarioWare series of games are popular with Nintendo's handhelds. It started on the Game Boy 
 Advance a number of years ago, made it's way onto the GameCube (as an extended version of the Game 
 Boy Advance one) , and now it's on the DS as WarioWare: Touched (WarioWare: Twisted came out after 
 this for the Game Boy Advance, and after that was WarioWare: Smooth Moves for the Wii) . Basically, 
 the WarioWare games consist solely of mini-games, each time using a unique feature. The DS version, 
 of course, uses the touch/blow feature as the gimmick. It's really fun and works better than the 
 first 2 entries in the series (nothing, however, beats Twisted) . What you do is choose a character, 
 who has their own set of mini-games, and you play all the way through their short thrills. Along 
 the way, you try to get a high score to unlock even more characters and you try to play as many 
 stages as you can to unlock as many mini-games to play separately in a different mode. These mini-games 
 are really fun, and there's a huge variety of them. Each character also has their own theme to 
 their games. For instance, one character's mini-games are all 5 second versions of 8-bit Nintendo 
 classics, while another character's mini-games require you to blow into the microphone for all 
 the games. There are also combination characters that mix different themes into their mini-games. 
 Each character has their own little short story, as well, but it's just a small animated cutscene 
 that lasts less than a minute and has no audio dialogue. Besides the main game, there are also 
 toys you can unlock and a mini-game mode, among other minor things. The toy mode is actually really 
 fun and exciting. When you complete a certain objective in the game, you unlock a new toy for the 
 toy room. Some toys are actually new mini-games, and others are real toys that you play with with 
 the stylus. For example, there is a yo-yo that you spin with the stylus, or the clown that juggles. 
 There are also voice-activated toys such as a mechanical parrot that records a 5-second voice memo 
 that's funny to hear when played back. As for the mini-game mode, you can play any mini-game you've 
 unlocked and try to get a high score for it. You can play them for as long as you want, and this 
 is handy if you're just in the mood to play certain mini-games because some are realyl addicting. 
 The negatives in this game are the repetitiveness and the boringness it has after a while, especially 
 when you are close to or already did beat the game. Playing the same things over and over isn't 
 that much fun, but if you haven't played it for a while it's nice to come back to it. Overall, 
 this is a really fun game.
  
  Overall ---If you own a DS and you're looking for a game that really takes advantage of the touch 
 screen, look no further than WarioWare: Touched! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is the microgames, these microgames are really nice and they use a 
 lot of the DS's touch screen and these games use them really well. The characters in this game 
 you may have seen in the past Wario Ware games and they have mainly the same characteristics and 
 they have fresh new microgames waiting for you to try. The touch controls are really nice and over 
 75% of the microgames use them and they work out very well. There are a lot of microgames there 
 are probably over about 150 microgames. There are also new little games you can unlock and play 
 to try to get the highest score which can keep you playing for a good while. The time-span is really 
 good this is one of those games that can keep you playing for a good while, you can try getting 
 high scores, getting every micro game and just playing the ones you have unlocked just because 
 you like them. 
  
  The bad parts of this game is the length of these micro games and the name of them really tell 
 they are "micro" some of them only last about 5 seconds and once you get to the "faster" part in 
 a session, then they only get to lasting about 2-3 seconds, so the length of these micro games 
 are not too good. The whole game itself is not that long, to get to the end, the beginner player 
 may only need 10 hours but when you are an expert, it can be beaten in about 5 hours. This game 
 can get boring playing the same game over and over again, yea playing a game that you like will 
 keep you playing for a good while, but if you dont even like over half the games, then you will 
 have a really hard time enjoying this game.
  
  Overall not too bad of a game, it could use a little bit of fixes to the game itself, but for the 
 first Wario Ware game on the DS, it is still fun and enjoyable for about everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aya-la
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  When I first looked at this game, I was a little skeptical, i'll admit.
  
  "WarioWare Touched? Come on, what kind of name is that? It's gotta be some freaky game..."
  
 
  Nevertheless, I picked it up and I had a blast with it. As is with other WarioWare games, it's 
 all "microgames", quick minigames that require the two screens and the stylus to play. The microgames 
 vary from cutting carrots to drawing kanji to putting out fires using some guy's... well... I hope 
 you know what I mean... but still, this game is hilarious and entertaining, with different categories 
 of microgames, a "toy" collection, a section where you can continuously play any microgame that 
 you've unlocked to see how many rounds you can play it. Each time you play a microgame and succeed, 
 you "level up", meaning the games get harder as you go, i. e., you get less time, it's harder, they 
 take away something crucial. The challenge will keep you coming back for more, not the mention 
 the humor is very entertaining.
  
  Definetly worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldemort8989
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  How can I say this? Wario Ware Touched is the perfect game for simple gamers looking for a laugh. 
 Nintendo really stretched their minds thinking of new microgames. This game will have you poking 
 kittens, squeezing ketchup bottles, unrolling toilet paper, washing hair, patching leaks, and hundreds 
 more.
  
  Any fun-loving DS owner should get this game. It's also worth it just to see how many more games 
 you can unlock. Every character has their own specific touch screen movement using the stylus, 
 so you can find someone you like and stick to them. Plus, the animation justs makes you want you 
 laugh. It combines cartoony animation, sketches, real-life, blocky, and a couple more I can't think 
 of.
  
  Nintendo definately made great use of the touch screen when they made Wario Ware Touched for the 
 DS. And for those of you thinking that the game will get boring after you play the microgames for 
 awhile... You're wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  It took me a while to get to this game. Even at $30, DS games aren't what I consider cheap, and 
 I like to get as much mileage as I can out of a game. Eventually, though, I just had to see for 
 myself what all the fuss was about with WarioWare. 
  
  Reading IGN's review was, I believe, the first time I'd seen the term "micro games," but it certainly 
 is fitting when describing the collection of toys you get to tinker with in Touched! The game opens 
 with a completely ridiculous scene of Wario having tooth trouble. The dude makes his way for the 
 dentist and, as he's roaring down the road on his hog, you riff through a quick set of these micro 
 games.
  
  The micro games are simple templates in which you are required to perform some type of touch-screen 
 action (s) . Many of the actual screen actions are the same but always feel fresh due to the scenarios 
 they're set in. And that's pretty much it  that's WarioWare Touched! in a nutshell -- but it's 
 enough to make the package quite fun and entertaining. In addition, however, there are some side 
 options, such as filling a couple of virtual toy rooms with trinkets collected throughout the course 
 of the game, and this aspect of Touched! adds a nice flavor of novelty to a game that's... well, 
 built on novelty.
  
  Actually, the game is built on funk. The entire WarioWare experience is a mess of funkiness and, 
 though the micro games are great fun, the game's presentation is what ties it all together into 
 the quirky, almost cult classic that it aims to be.
  
  Now, after you complete Wario's opening set, you'll unlock two more character scenarios; after 
 completing their sets of micro games, you'll unlock more characters and so on and so forth. The 
 overall game is kind of short, but it's a healthy package, all the same. Surprisingly, I found 
 replaying scenarios to be quite fun. Others have said that once you've played through Touched!, 
 that's it  there's no reason to go back  but I found that not to be the case. Having Touched! 
 in your DS is like carrying around a backpack full of your favorite toys, and the game will keep 
 you entertained pretty much anytime you're on the go.
  
  Unfortunately, however, aside from the obvious touch-screen interaction, the game does almost nothing 
 else to distinguish itself from a Gameboy Advance (GBA) title. There's a short 3-D-graphic scene 
 you'll get treated to each time you begin a new scenario, but the rest of the game is made up of 
 terribly basic artwork, if you can call it art; I suppose Touched! can get away with it because 
 of its premise of being a retro-funk-type thing... or whatever. Don't get me wrong, though, the 
 graphics work, but they could have been a whole lot better. The micro-game graphics are, in my 
 opinion, fine as they are, but the skits are made up of 2-D art similar in quality to that seen 
 in Ubisoft's Catz and Dogz titles for the GBA, and I just don't feel that quite cuts it on the 
 DS. The sound and music, at least, fare a bit better, and add both excitement and style to the 
 game.
  
  In the end  in spite of some minor complaints  WarioWare Touched! is a very entertaining, very 
 endearing and extremely funky game for the DS. Much like Feel The Magic / Rub Rabbits, it aims 
 for the gamer with a sense of humor, someone who ogles pink Cadillacs and posters of Marilyn Monroe. 
 It's short but oh-so sweet and you can come back to the scenarios anytime for a quick micro-game 
 fix. Don't look for anything serious or even logical in Touched!, because that's not what this 
 game does well. Just pick it up and play, and you'll be fine.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankDK1995
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  This game is very addictive for the first month you get it! Then you have played all the mini games 
 and It kinds of gets boring. but It is a good game all- around though! My favorite mini games is 
 the 8-bit guy or whatever his name is! you get to play cool mini games like old school and stuff! 
 like dk, mario, zelda, metroid, and stuff like that. other old school games too! the little things 
 that you get and can play with are really fun! like the little ball clicker and the little parrot 
 and stuff. Great game! it is the same as wario ware smooth moves though. it is very short also! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  WarioWare Touched!
  DS
  
  This game is so so fun I finished the hole thing in a day but still I play the every day, WarioWare 
 has been on the Wii, GC and GBA but out of all of them this is the best.
  
  The mini-games are fun and use the hole DS, 98% of the mini-games you the touch screen but the 
 other use the microphone, In those mini-games all you have to do is blow into the mic but stop 
 this they put in this game where these people are trying to get along the rope so if you make a 
 sound they just drop.
  
  The gameplay is fun and all take everyone more then a turn to do the games.
  
  Overall WarioWare 
 is a fun DS game that you will play over and over again just for the fun of the mini-games, If 
 you have not play the other WarioWare games this would be a good place to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antiredcap
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The replay value of this game is awesome!! 
  I think the game focuses a little too much on the DS touch screen and mic but others will say that 
 is why it's such a great game!!
  This was my first game on the DS and I still play it to this day ( 2 years later ) . The graphics 
 and sound are more or less the same as the other warioware titles but in my opinion there is NOTHING 
 wrong with that... why change a winning formula anyway! 
  If this is what the warioware series has to offer then I cant wait for the next title ... and the 
 next .... and the next!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinyPinkRobots
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  this is such a fun game, although i think its pretty hard to get hold of now, i had lots of fun 
 playing, thing is, after completion the game gets a little boring, its always a good game to pick 
 up and play for a few minutes when your bored. I enjoyed the game. And still do, infact, when i 
 was searching for the game, i thought it was going to have an 8 or 9, but i recall that it had 
 a 7! i'm sure it deserves more! I would reccomened this game to anyone, even though it lacks in 
 replay value, you can play it every so often, and its great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EffixC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  Wario is back!! On he's on the hot DS, so the stylus is the only 'Weapon' we can use to come through 
 this game.
  
  Sometimes I think people just need a break, get rid of those complicated and heavy theme-within 
 role playing games, just try something easy and fun.'Warioware' series are all that way - fun, simple, easy, quick, just 
 relax and you'll feel easy.
  
  Because it's one of the earliest games released on DS, it's not perfect of course. But it still worths 
 anything: try image just use the tiny stylus or microphone all time! Every mini game costs no more 
 than several seconds, all I need to do is draw a line, or try to scrab the screen, or just blow to 
 my DS,... then I get fun, maybe I'll laugh - that would make others sitting around feel a little 
 surprise, but whatever.
  
  Enjoy the whole time. That's  DS-player should never miss a game 
 like this!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamesey11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This game just has a whole bunch of mini-games in it. The mini-games take about three seconds and 
 there are about 15 in each level. This game has a good amount of levels, but each level is to quick. 
 In fact each level only takes about 4 or so minutes, whick makes the game finish quickly. And it 
 is pretty easy as well. But there just the bad bits there are also some good bits aswell. All the 
 mini-games are fun. The mini-games use really good controls. Every mini-game uses the touch pen. 
 Some mini-games are funny. And the touch screen controls don't stuff up. Overall this game is really 
 good at times and bad at others but it is worth a look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fienno123
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  ok i know nintendo is flooded with minigames, but this is just crap-tacular. all you do is touch, 
 poke, rub blow and play boring microgames. how can i make this review last 100 words you dont do 
 anythig!. there is no mutiplayer so that isnt very good and the fact that it can all be done in 
 under and hour just means youv wasted your cash. to be honest i never liked minigames, id prefer 
 kicking the dragons ass with my sword and my fellow clan. well some of the toys are pretty fun, 
 like looking at bacterica, yeaa really fun... or the colouring pen also great. i can tell you know 
 that was sacrcasm. dont buy this buy the wii version or better yet buy a andventure / were you 
 dont touch things 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Wow, games don't get any wackier than Warioware Touched. A game where you do random 5-second mini-games 
 one after another. There are a bunch of characters which offer different styles of mini-games, 
 such as scribbling or tapping. The game is very short, and can be beaten in a few hours, but those 
 few hours are going to be loads of fun! You can also unlock a bunch of random stuff to play around 
 with, which keeps the replay value going. With so much random fun going on, you will never want 
 to put this title down, especially since it's really cheap now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: choffy31
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I'm sad that this game didn't live up to my expectations. I love the WarioWare series, and when 
 I heard that one is coming to the DS, I just couldn't wait to buy it. You can imagine my disappointment 
 when I finished the game the next day. It's a shame. They could've taken this game a million different 
 ways. But instead, it seems as if they almost forgot about the game and didn't finish it in time. 
 But all in all, its a fun game for what its worth.
  
  Gameplay - 8
  
  The gameplay was better than it may seem like. Not one mini-game felt unnatural or unusual. There 
 are a few that I still can't figure out what to do, or how to do it. But all in all, the touch 
 screen improves the gameplay dramatically.
  
  Graphics - 7
  
  Quirky, colorful graphics are a trademark of the WarioWare series, and this is no exception. Sometimes 
 the mini-games look undone, or not as polished as others, but for the most part it looks fine. 
 Not eye candy, but not an eye sore.
  
  Sound - 4
  
  Really annoying techno music that constantly plays and never stops. I found myself constantly turning 
 the sound down on my DS to not have to hear the in-game music.
  
  Value - 9
  
  This game is not very long, but if you bought it for the story, then you bought it for the wrong 
 reason. I love to play these mini-games over and over. You can pick it up and play for hours, or 
 even a few minutes. Either way, I had a blast.
  
  Bottom Line ~ This game isn't great, but it isn't bad either. It seems like they were more worried 
 about WarioWare: Twisted than Touched, but all in all, its only $20 now, and you can't beat 5-6 
 hours of non-stop addicting mini-games for $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom4567
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I played for a little bit the first Warioware Inc. games for the GBA, the microgames impressed 
 me a lot, so I decided to try out Warioware Touched for the DS. At first, I though it was an awesome 
 game because it had an excellent use of the DS Touchscreen, problem was the microgames, each char. 
 had a different set of microgames, but with the same rhythm, I mean that you move the stylus the 
 same way to all of that one character's microgames, that is very repetitive and it can get old 
 very quicly. Also the story had its problems, there wasn't any plot in the story, only unlock every 
 character, beat his or her microgames and thats it, you continue with the other characters.
  
  Well at least you were able to get ''toys'' after beating missions from the microgames. Those 
 were very entertaining and were the main reason that I played through the whole game.
  
  Warioware Touched is an ok game. If you got a DS, Warioware Touched is worth checking out, if you 
 want to experience the joy of the DS Touchscreen and its amazing features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacki04
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  I bought Warioware touched after it came out for 2 years. It was still at a steep price but i still 
 wanted to try it out. I played and I was amazed of it. This game was much more better than the 
 one on Gamecube. It had much more minigames than on the gamecube and the graphics had been improved. 
 it also had extra features like toys to play with, using the mic and using the touch screen all 
 the time amde this game unique and tremendous. But the downside of this game was after I played 
 it for a week I had already completed the game and unlocked all the toys in the game, but this 
 would be a perfect game if it was much longer and had more varied minigames and if it had a multiplayer 
 mode so I can play with my friends just like the one on the Gamecube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmonkey012
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 24, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  We all know Wario. Over the years he has lived in the shadow of Mario. But this game is different. 
 In this game Wario is the star. The title of the game even has his name in it. Wario Ware games 
 have no story lines whatsoever. All you do is play mini-games for hours until you lose or your thumbs 
 fall off. Wario Ware is possibly one of the strangest games on the DS or on any console for that 
 matter. But this game is fun. It is only a collection of 200 five second long mini-games but for 
 the weirdest reason I cannot put this game down to save my life. It's really that fun.
  
  THE GOOD: A collection of 200 addictive, and strange, mini-games that will have you playing for 
 months. Descent graphics. Un-lockable characters and even more un-lockable games for your toy room.
 
  
  THE BAD: the mini-games only last about five seconds ( except the boss battles which last about) . 
 Games get real old real quick. No multi-player.
  
  OVERALL: Wario Ware Touched is a great game for the DS. And did I mention it is really really really 
 really really really really really really really fun and addictive game. Must-Buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 21, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Overall: Warioware Touched for the Nintendo DS is like a five disk director's cut special edition 
 DVD set for a movie that is already three hours long filled with boring deleted scenes but cool 
 extras. Like the thing mentioned this game may have some cool new additions but seems as if it 
 takes the easy way out (literally) . Hurray! Its Warioware finally on the DS. The underrated series 
 is finally here, and this game sticks to its roots completely, giving you some of the most ridiculous 
 mini-games that you have ever played in your life, and I am being one-hundred percent serious when 
 I say that. Although some of your favorite mini-games from the past are back to play with, which 
 makes you wonder if this game should have been in production longer. However the use of the DS's 
 new functions are completely intact, just wait until the blowing missions! Graphically this game 
 looks the exact same that it did back on the Gameboy Advance, only this time the DS's bottom and 
 top screen now offer a little bit crisper graphics. The game still looks quite cartoon like and 
 all of your favorite characters from the original plus more are here to offer you their new mini-games. 
 So yes, the graphics are very good indeed. The sound department is where this game makes its biggest 
 leap. This time around they no longer just leave the sound to the funky generic music that makes 
 you feel in a rush, but get this, they put words too it. Yes, every once and a while you will hear 
 the person singing. This is very disturbing yet fits right in with the game, and it even speeds 
 up when you get to that part of their level, and they are actually speaking real words not just 
 some gibberish. Let's face the facts though people, this game is gonna be disappointing to die-hard 
 fans of this series, because hey it was to me. First off the first Warioware for the Gameboy Advance, 
 it made you think, it was difficult. This game however when compared to the first one, the difficulty 
 level will insult your intelligence. Honest to god truth, this game made my self esteem go down 
 way low. Apparently when they were throwing together this well thought out game that they forgot 
 to make it somewhat hard. That and honestly although it sounds fun, the blowing on the DS is just 
 worthless and will make you light-headed and bored.
  
  Pros: + Its Warioware on the DS + Graphics have been updated + Words to the already tricked out 
 music + Uses the DS to full advantage (the best I have seen so far) Cons: - Blowing on your DS 
 is not as much fun as it is a hassle - Rehashed mini-games from the first one, and some mini-games 
 are even repeated in-game - This game is just a little bit, oh wait who am I kidding, this game 
 is way too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 11, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Nintendo DS-WarioWare: Touched!
  
  Review 35
  
  Released: 2005
  Game Genre: Puzzle
  
  Story
  There really is no story, but when playing the various characters 
 microgames, theres a bit of a background story going on. The whole point of the game is that Wario 
 one day finds a Nintendo DS and wants to make money by making games that use both of the screens.
 
  
  Gameplay
  A really cool game, WarioWare Touched uses every aspect of the Nintendo DS. From poking, cutting, 
 grabbing, dragging, scribbling, and even blowing into the microphone. Each character has many microgames 
 that last from 5 to 15 seconds. One to four words is displayed on the screen and you have to figure 
 out what the game is talking about and perform that action.
  
  Graphics
  Cartoony like the whole Wario series, but still leaves a bit to be desired.
  
  Controls
  
 As I said earlier, this game uses every possible aspect of the DSs touch screen. Everything, and 
 I mean EVERYTHING is done via control of the touch screen. The only button you will ever push is 
 the start button to pause the game.
  
  Durability
  You and friends will play this game forever. Not only are there various characters microgames, 
 but you win souvenirs by beating their stories, and also for beating a certain number of points. 
 Lastly, you can head into the Album menu and play any microgame from anybody youve beaten.
  
  Difficulty: Easy
  A pretty easy game because of all the microgames, but there are hard parts 
 close to the end. For example, the dragging microgames are difficult as well as a megamix towards 
 the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droler
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I have WarioWare for the Gamecube, WarioWare Twisted for GBA, and this one. I've played WarioWare 
 for the Wii as well.
  
  So far, this is my favorite, with Twisted coming in a close second. The touch screen is more of 
 an innovation for a gaming handheld than the DS ever gets proper kudos for, and it's never better 
 than in games that were designed around the concept (instead of games that just use it because 
 it's there, or because they are expected to) . This is a game clearly built around the touch screen 
 and it shows in gameplay and sheer playability. It's nothing short of hand held gaming genius. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marymc21
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 3, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I first tried Warioware: Touched! in a local toyshop when the DS first came out and I had no idea 
 what it was or how to play it really (there was no stylus with the sample DS) . Months later when 
 I got my own DS, I chanced buying Warioware, and I could only get it second-hand. The games were 
 all completed when I played it the first few times, but then it reset itself.
  
  I love to just take this game out and mess with it. The characters are great fun and once you have 
 them all, it's still entertaining. It uses the microphone and the stylus in all possible forms, 
 and it's just plain FUN!
  
  Definitely worth what I paid for it, and always fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HolyCheesus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 17, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Well Wario's out on another adventure...... sort of. Well this game dosn't really have a story, 
 not a good one any way. This game is about the game play, not grahics or plot twists.
  
  The touch screen game play is pretty fun, and modes are seperated and by genre. Theres a scratch 
 mode, a poke mode, and even one where you blow into the DS to blow out candles or something.
  
  Some problems with Wario Ware Touched is that its short. You pretty much unlock all the characters 
 in one sitting, mabey the first time you put this game in and play.
  
  Also the music. The music could drive you crazy. Or have you singing along, if heavy distorted 
 lyrics and bits is your style of music.
  
  Thats what I got to say about this, this is another good DS game with lots to do and plenty to 
 unlock (including a Mario Paint like kiosk, or a hormanica) but if you like fun, sesar causing 
 flashes and blurs, you'll like this game. Go Go Miky! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDoughBoy3D
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Same as previous wariorware games where you play random minigames that consist of different objectives... 
 however it focuses only on the touchpad and the microphone so no need to press any buttons really... 
 Speaking of the microphones, what you do with it during the game for example is that there'll be 
 one minigame where you'll have to find a certain object in the mist of sand and what you do is 
 you blow into the microphone to simulate wario blowing to find the missing object. Sounds nifty 
 right? Well, it is, so two thumbs up for nintendo for yet again, smart thinking.
  However, the gameplay does seem to have lost its touch even though it mainly consists of touching 
 since the minigames do feel repetitive at times and if you play it for a long period of time, you 
 might find yourself getting hand cramps but this really shouldn't be a problem since the game's 
 meant to be played in burst.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics look nothing short of great. The illustrations are done well in a very cartoony fashion 
 and should appeal to people of all ages really. I, myself, found it to be a little hard on my eyes 
 because of the bursts of rainbow colors and whatnot, but all was forgived.
  
  Sound:
  Hmm, I haven't noticed the sound too much but overall I think it's the same as before. Really, 
 all I hear when I play warioware is that chant, OH YEAH whenever you successfully complete an objective 
 so that could be a good enough reason to get a 8/10 in the sound category d^_^b
  
  Value:
  mmm, some people may rat on me for this one, but I'm sorry to say..... the minigames 
 do get old a little fast. Sure, you can play it for short periods and have a contentful time playing 
 it... but when you've had this game for eh... a week or so.... it just might feel a little repetitive 
 doing the same minigames over and over again, hoping to beat your previous highest score. What 
 I would've really liked as a gamer and as a fan would be something like a downloadable content 
 of minigames from nintendo but since this game was a launch title game, I guess it can be tolerated...
 
  
  Tilt:
  Simply said, perfect... it's possibly the most comforting portable game I've ever laid my hands 
 on. There's absolutely no awkward movements or anything like that. Sometimes, the game can get 
 a little too intense but hey, if you've survived with metroid prime hunters, this game should be 
 a breeze to handle.
  
  Overall, great game, great launch title... I sorta wanted that expected umph from nintendo such 
 as downloadable minigames through wifi connection but all is forgiven for an already fantastic 
 game. With all these reasons considered, Warioware: Touched gets an 8.8! OH YEAH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. The game is just sheer insanity. There are moments when you just want 
 to throw the game out the window in frustration, but it never lasts too long. The games are just 
 too short to be TOO hard. The exception seemed to be the boss stages. A few of those drag on and 
 can become suicidally frustrating. I don't even want to think about how many times I had to replay 
 that planet blaster boss game.
  
  The characters are a lot of fun. I rather liked the little intro sequences each one had. The themes 
 and games that go with them for each character really fit well. Most of them are fairly bizarre. 
 The different characters and themes are what really save the game from become tedious too fast.
 
  
  That said, the game DOES become pretty tedious. By the time you've played each mini-game again 
 and AGAIN to unlock everything, you feel something like what an institutionalized former PCP junky 
 must feel like. Your brain is just numb.
  
  You're arm is kind of numb too.... this game is downright PAINFUL at times.
  
  One of my favorite 
 aspects of the game is the music. I think it really sells it. Each game has a zany theme to go 
 with it. If you take time to think about it, it's kind of funny sometimes. The times and places 
 DON'T always match. You get classical music, or Christmas songs, or old hymns in the strangest 
 places. The individual character songs are great too. Ashley's haunted mansion -esque theme was 
 a lot of fun and is still stuck in my head.
  
  The game isn't that hard to totally unlock. If you focus on it, you could do it under 20 hours 
 probably. After that, there really isn't much reason to play the game, other than to show to friends 
 and such. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Wacky sense of humor; some of the microgames are a blast; fairly clean presentation.
 
  
  The Bad: Most of the microgames are pretty much the same thing; soundtrack is irritating; really 
 unambitious; feels rushed.
  
  WarioWare, Inc: Mega Microgame$, which was released on the Game Boy Advance, was one of the most 
 bizarre and crazy games ever to see the light of day. WarioWare: Touched! is the first sequel to 
 Wario's insane antics, and it mostly gets the charm and the pick-up-and-play appeal of the original, 
 but it's missing a lot of the variety.
  
  First off, Touched relies far too heavily on the touch screen. The vast majority of microgames 
 (yes, microgames) here are simply of the tap the screen variety. It doesn't get much different 
 from that usually, so it's not great. There's a set of games that use the microphone exclusively, 
 but they're just as stale.
  
  Oh, you say you don't know what microgames are? Well, they're just what they sound like - split 
 second games. They all usually last 3-5 seconds, and you're required to figure out what to do with 
 a one-word clue before time runs out, then move on to the next game. It gets very difficult after 
 a while - or it did, anyway, in the Game Boy Advance game. The difficulty level seems to peak pretty 
 early here in Touched, making it far less entertaining and fun.
  
  Overall, it's just plain disappointing that Touched isn't better. It certainly could have been 
 a lot better with smoother graphics, more varied sound effects, and better games. More unlockable 
 minigames would have been nice too. It just feels too thrown together. More time would have produced 
 a much better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  Warioware Touched isn't the best Warioware game, but It sure is a good one! This is the game that 
 ruins Walmart's demo DS's with Warioware in it. The whole game uses the touch screen, and nothing 
 else. If you buy the game... Buy a screen protector. I earned all the minigames and extras in less 
 than a week, but this is a game that is repetitive, but is always fun. Repetitive=Fun... Only in 
 this game does that rule apply. This game is also pretty funny. It had me laughing a couple of 
 times (Nowhere NEAR as funny as Warioware Wii) The microgames are downright fun, and the story 
 mode is fun as well. One thing I really like is all the toys you can earn. This game is repetitive, 
 but it kept me entertained for a month or so. Overrall, I reccomend this game to any DS owner who 
 doesnt have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B_dinosaur
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 23, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This WarioWare title was really made interactive, due to it being on the DS. This game is total 
 use of the stylus, so if you dont like using it, this is not the game for you. Like the other WarioWares, 
 each character has a different genre of minigame. The game also gets a little tougher as you go 
 on. Anyway, anyone can have fun with this game, because it really keeps you into it, with the varity 
 and randomness of the games. There is also one thing different in this game. One of the minigame 
 genres requires blowing through the DS' microphone. ( Well, all of the genres are different actions 
 on the DS, like poking, dragging, etc.) You cant really complain about the graphics in this game, 
 because they are not those 3D kind of graphics in most cases. It has more of a cartoon feel to 
 it. The music in the game can throw you off, because the tempo of the minigames increase. Some 
 of the songs are just plain annoying, too. This was a fun game, and I hope you feel the same way 
 about it. Well, just dont sit there, go out and get it!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thicknick
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  People give this Warioware title a bad reputation because it is so touch-screen-intensive. Yeah, 
 it is. It has its low points too, to be sure. Actually, I thought the lowest point was trying to 
 unlock all of Mike the Karaoke Robot's microgames because 90% of them were won by merely blowing 
 into the DS's mic. How stupid and tedious. However, many of the microgames are fun and funny, and 
 they give you a great distraction in between homework assignments or whatever.
  There are plenty of old-school themed microgames, too, which was the selling point for me. The 
 other games are similar and as drug-induced as things of this nature can possibly be. Still, the 
 unique presentation that can only come from Warioware serves this game well.
  Yes, it is true that everything is drag and drop, rub, poke, draw, blow, or whatever else, but 
 actually, when you play the hardcore mix the real variety really shows through quite often. Thank 
 God there aren't too many blowing games.
  The graphics are fun, and simple. I can't imagine much better graphics working well for a game 
 like this. The sound is great. Plenty of unique songs, a few with actual vocals (admittedly annoying 
 vocals quite often) , and the replay value is pretty above-average. While the unlocks aren't as 
 compelling as you might hope they would be, if you're a real gamer you'll of course obsess until 
 you get them all, and that alone will take some time. Then there's the matter of setting high scores.
 
  Album mode really takes the replay value to the next level, as well. Playing a microgame as many 
 times in succession as possible, but the kink is, of course, it gets faster each time. Tons of 
 fun with certain microgames, as the speed gets higher and the music gets faster, you feel a powerful 
 level of intensity. I prefer this game to Twisted! quite honestly. I can understand the complaints 
 brought against this game, but I think people need to give it a second look. If you get a chance 
 and find it lying around somewhere, pick it up and try it out. I recommend it for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for any DS owner. I really have a lot of fun with this game. There are 
 tons of mini games to keep you busy and they all you the touch screen/mic. There are tons of creative 
 mini games cookie ones, ones that dont make any sense Then theres a few disturbing ones. Like 
 just to name one. There are two guys holding string of some kind and you half to Tickle them to 
 make one of them let go of the string Thats just weird but for some reasons its fun. This game 
 is just great. Lots of funny noises, Good cartoon graphics. Wacky little story with it. This game 
 really poles the whole mini games genre off well. I think if youre new to the DS look for this 
 game and try to find it if you can. Ive spent hours on this game with my family playing this game. 
 My only one sad disappointment is that theres no DS download single card play to it. That would 
 have been a little cool to see. But in closing I think this game is great for any mini game genre 
 lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshandlucky
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 17, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  this game is a collection of microgames about 5 seconds long. the many elements of the touch screen 
 are tap rub slice spin drag scribble retro and blow. there is a boss stage that you can get another 
 health back. you can play any of the manygamesat an endless mode I haveto say a hundred words so 
 I will just keep talking. a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a aa aa a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  GOOD: Tons of enjoyable micro games; Perfect use of the touch screen; the 2nd screen also is used 
 perffectly
  
  BAD: Story is rubbish and pointless; some of the games are either ulsess or stupid
  
  GAMEPLAY:
 
  If you've been on the Warioware for the GBA then your in look becuase Warioware Touched is like 
 that but ten times better due to the fact the touch screen in used perffectly!, Theres tons of 
 games to play that uses the Stylus like Chopping, Popping, selecting, Scratching, rubbiing, dragging 
 and much more, the Mic also plays a role in this game like if you blow in the mic you can blow 
 bubbles!, Theres hundreds of micro games that last about 5 seconds each so you gotta be fast with 
 your fingers! and quickly figer out how to complette it, some of the games are bad as some are 
 very pointless and some are too hard to figer out.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are pretty good, theres a mixture of different types of graphics, 3D, 2D, Retro, artistic 
 and many other different types which is why im gonna give it a 7.
  
  SOUND:
  Theres many different funcky music within this game all likable and wired sound effects that are 
 funny.
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall WarioWare Touched! is a realy good DS Game is one not to be missed out on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  A great and fun puzzling mini-game game for kids and teens.
  
  Tryed it out on my dad and he was to slow so.. not for adults.. lol funny story.
  
  A fast 
 paced fun and funny game with tons of difrent ways to use the DS touch screen just like the WII 
 version with so many ways to use the WII-mote.
  
  But back to this game.. It\'s very short but its memorable games/toys, and first player are really 
 goooood. And you can play the mini games over and over.
  
  The DS and Wario-Ware are a perfect match.
  
  Totaly fun.
  
  And the little cartoons in 
 between are very funny and enjoyable.
  
  8 out of 10
  =`/ -- (8.5) -- \\`=
  
  You won't regret playing this game. It really is fun and it lasts pretty long. i sold it a while 
 back because i beat everything. but doesn't that prove how addicting it was that i beat the whole 
 thing? ide say deffinetly buy it. sense now-a-days its alot cheaper anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WigiFan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  -Gameplay-
  Well there isn't much of a story really but there are levels which include the characters own perdicaments. 
 There are 12 levels which will make you play a series of mini-games. This game only lasts about 
 45 min. to 1 hour to complete but the addictive minigames will bring you back or more. Well the 
 main character is good ol' Wario and also features some of the other characters from previously 
 in the series. Ex. Mona, 9 Volt, Jimmy, and Kat and Ana, Doctor Crygor. Also features new characters 
 like Rob the Karaoke Robot, and Ashley, a badass little 10 year old with a demon companion. This 
 game includes use of the DS's famous touch screen and mic. All the view screen is used for is viewing 
 cutscenes. The games minigames are basicly little clips that have you Poke the Kitten! or Rub the 
 Lamp! and oter things like that. This is no Mario Party clone for you don't collect stars and coins, 
 but are set witha certain amount of lives and see how many levels you can complete before losing 
 all four. Trust me, this game is addictive and worth putting in your library if you got a DS. One 
 bad feature though..... No multiplayer!!!
  
  -Graphics-
  Nothing too special. Do you remember WarioWare: Mega Party Games? Well they are the same as that 
 basicly. But this game is pretty good for a DS game and has some pretty good effects. Wario looks 
 as good as he used too (Which will be good and bad to some) This game is pretty colorful! They 
 are bright and very polished! Well, despite being the same as the previous 2 games, this game is 
 nice lookin'!
  
  -Sound-
  This game doesn't have any voice-overs (besides the occasional You got it! or Yeaaah! from the 
 characters congratulating you on your victory. But this game has a very catchy soundtrack that's 
 very goofy in a good way. It's simmilaer to Mario Party, But goofier! Trust me this game's sound 
 track will be stuck in your head for quite a while!
  
  -Value&amp; Tilt-
  The value of this game is perfect for the addictiveness of it!! This game is freakin Mario Party 
 on cocaine! Thats how addicting it is!! Over all thought this was my first DS game and also one 
 of my favorites! I love this game it has awesome replay value that is just as good as Mario Party!! 
 OK well if you love tons of minigames you should defenitly add this game to your DS library! OK 
 well gotta go now bye bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_lexacus
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  A brilliant game, allowing the player to be kept amused for hours on end. You can complete all 
 the mini-games, but only when you go back and redo them until you reach the very highest score 
 can actually say you have completed it. You start the game working through your way through the 
 levels and getting cool little items, and extra characters to play as. You do all different kind 
 of things to go up the levels, all of it involving you using the stylus in a different amount of 
 ways. You turn thins, rub thins, pull things, push things etc. You can unlock new levels, but best 
 of all, there is a little mini-game that is for pros only mainly. It consists of all the different 
 games compiled into one quick-fire game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyFanatic
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Now, first off I want you to look at my R. D. and my classification (1) . Then look at my score (2) . 
 Now, you're probably wondering why the two contradict each other. Well, basically.. the game was 
 wonderful. Simply fun. But it just can't stack up to other WarioWares like, say, Twisted! or Smooth 
 Moves, or the original. The game has lots of ingenuity and the same fast-paced think-on-your-feet 
 5-second gameplay, but the small shortcomings it brings to the table are a lot more noticable than 
 previous entries. For one, the story mode quickly becomes repititive and unbearably easy, and it 
 is too redundant with only 4 or 5 different ideas intergrated into microgame playing. If the game 
 beared a more obscure name, like Microgamo Paradiso Megaco, (or something like that) the game probably 
 would have ranked higher with me. But coming from such a high pedigree, the game falls in to the 
 worst of series category. I'm afraid that's all it is, though it is still worthy enough to be in 
 any DS owner's library, or at least played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeg1967
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  Quite simpily if you have a ds get touched. Its the best game on the DS and also is one of the 
 funnest videogams you will ever play. Using the stilus you preform different tasks and complete 
 different stages while racing aganst the clock. Some really outstanding innovation in DS technology 
 will have you never looking at your DS in the same way.
  The mini-games you win after completing side goals are amazing. They use the DS capibillites in 
 some outstanding ways and although on the surface they are pointless you can't help but marval 
 at every single one. Overall One of the best games ever made 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riku_sorrow
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 22, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: Wario touched doesn't rely on graphics so let's make it fast. It's like super NES but 
 sometimes with 3D levels.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Yaaay, this is where it comes. The gameplay is great on the DS. It's great to play it 
 during vacation time. The levels are funny as hell and the humour is superb. You'll not only use 
 the stylus, you'll also use the michrophone. Can it bee better?
  
  SOUND: Meeeh, the sounds the characters are doing can be darn funny at times but will get you boored 
 after some hours. But thanks to that, you'll laugh, so plz, don't take the voices away!!
  
  Whao, this NDS game is great, it's so additctive that you can play it for months till the release 
 of the the next Wario Ware game. But the game won't last for long and 200 minigames aren't enough! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 18, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware: Touched Review
  Wario Ware Touched was launched early in the age of the Nintendo DS. This game is great with its 
 humor and addicting Micro Games. You will spend hours playing the addicting Micro Games. Out of 
 the 4 Wario Ware games, this one is my personal favorite. Using the DSs Touchable Screen, Wario 
 Ware Twisted is all about tapping, dragging, and spinning with the Stylus. Youll love this game. 
 There is a brief story for about 12 players and you must complete the characters level by beating 
 a set number of micro games. The range of the Micro Games required to beat is usually 12-20. Each 
 character has their own individual theme with the Touch Screen. So what I mean is that one person 
 has Micro Games in which you trace or drag. Another is all about spinning. These numerous capabilities 
 make the game amazing. You even have to play Micro Games that require you to blow in the Mic of 
 the DS. Completing all 12 character stories is a piece of cake that will normally take 5 hours 
 to complete. You may not be happy to know how short everything turns out, but there is a bunch 
 more pluses to this game.
  For one thing, unlockables seem unlimited. You can get some great secret games to toy around with, 
 and there also are some fantastic bonus levels in which you must quickly beat some of the randomly 
 selected Micro Games. Another down side is the fact that there isnt any multiplayer. Fans may 
 be turned down here as well. I must admit that I expected a multiplayer to be available in this 
 game. Nonetheless, this game is pretty cool. As far as graphics go, there are pretty good. I love 
 the animation. For what it aims for, the graphics of this game are a complete success, however, 
 for a Nintendo DS game, they are only okay. But hey, I love the graphics, fans just may not be 
 too content with the animated scenes displayed in the Micro Games. The sound is one thing you have 
 to love in all Wario Ware games. Each character level has its own music. The theme reflects in 
 the game too as you play. The farther you get into the characters stage, the faster the music 
 becomes. It sounds great. Wario sounds great too, because what he says at times is hilarious. I 
 definitely recommend this game for the price its at. Youll love it especially if you have some 
 humor and like to play a variety of things. There is indeed a variety of Micro Games. From unrolling 
 toilet paper, to lighting a match, this game is awesome! In conclusion, with the downsides of no 
 multiplayer, and a brief story mode, Wario Ware may sound like a bummer, but it is indeed worth 
 it. The game will have you in tears with its humor, and you may even sweat as you play the micro 
 games in an attempt to get a high score. If you ever pick up this game, hope this helped you in 
 your decision. Peace
  -Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReikoFujin
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  Don't let the opening line fool you, this is a fantastic game and one of the best launch games 
 ever. Period. It does what very few launch games do; show off the features of the console. From 
 blowing sand to scribbling a blackboard and even tickling noses, this shows off the true power 
 and capability of the Nintendo DS and makes this a game a very good launch games.
  
  Now that the pleasantries are out of the way, let's get down to the nitty-gritty. The gameplay 
 of this WarioWare game is as fantastic as ever. If you don't know, WarioWare games are comprised 
 of 5 second micro-games that are thrown at you at a random order made to test your reflexes. This 
 game's mini-games are extremely varied, some even showing off the DS's capabilities beyond what 
 could have been imagined. Games range from mic games involving blowing hard at the mic and scribbling 
 games with a range of innovative uses of the stylus.
  
  The graphics are nothing mind-blowing, most FMVs and mini-games in cartoon-ish 2D style along with 
 an occasional cel-shaded hint thrown in. They satisfy the needs of a first-generation DS game, 
 but don't quite hold up to today's standard of graphics.
  
  The problem with most mini-game compilations is they are short. And WarioWare: Touched! is very, 
 very short. And I don't mean 4-6 hour short. I mean 2-3 hour short. You'll rattle through the individual 
 characters in less than 2 hours, and you may just come back to one of the more favourable mini-games 
 at a later date.
  
  Despite having hardly any voice-overs, the sound is pretty damn terrific. A fitting score is always 
 played during an appropriate collection of mini-games, and although some get a bit tedious, most 
 are very good indeed.
  
  In the end, WarioWare: Touched! is an outstanding first-generation DS game, and in some aspects 
 it has yet to be beaten in terms of sheer fun and enjoyment, but a lack of polish and short story 
 hurt the game severely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazednakedfool
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Slicing fruit.
  Picking noses.
  Poking slugs.
  
  All in a days work for Wario Ware. If you've ever played a WarioWare game, you'll know what this 
 is like - Fast minigames, one after another, trying to figure out WHAT THE CRAP your trying to 
 do. Its funny, and its fun.
  
  Difficulty - Just Right - This games difficulty is goes like this: Starts out hard, when your saying 
 What the heck am I doing?! Then it gets easy once you get the hang of it. Then after you beat the 
 game, your trying to get high scores, so the difficulty is just right.
  
  Gameplay - Bunch o' minigames slapped in a row. Fun, but not very breathtakingly awesome, or anything. 
 Its fun though.
  
  Graphics - Zany. Crazy. Mostly just drawings, but there are some 3-D minigames.
  
  Sound - 
 I love wario ware sound. Its so perfect. Just quirky, funny, awesome.
  
  Value - Unfortunetly, you'll beat the game quickly, and the replay value wears thin. But, this 
 game is PERFECT for pick-up and go.
  
  Overall - If you like the style of play, minigames, get it. If not, rent it. I bought it and i 
 am happy with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeNMaStEr206
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most highly addictive games I have ever played. I picked it up as a first 
 game for my Nintendo DS when i had it back in 2004, let me tell you i haven't stopped playing it 
 since. This game puts you in a series of mini games known as microgames and you have to use your 
 stylus or microphone to solve or beat each microgame. (Each one takes about 5 seconds to beat and 
 are easy to comprehend) The gameplay is really good, the sound gets a little annoying at times 
 and sometimes its nice to hear so it's good, the graphics are cartoony-like and suit its mood and 
 aren't exactly the PSP's kind of graphics but are great. Overall I give this game an 8.5 out of 
 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaKierad
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Kierad Loves : Hundreds of crazy micro mini-games, crazy different ways to use the stylus controls, 
 the humour, Wario.
  Kierad Hates : That there is no multi-player, Not for Hardcore gamers, the simple visuals could 
 turn people off.
  
  When the PSP and DS launched almost two years ago, The PSP looked to be the favourite with its 
 impressive graphics and the DS was looked down as no one ever thought a handheld would succeed 
 with two screens and a stylus. Two years later and DS is a worldwide hit due to its touch generation 
 games and in my opinion this is what started it all.
  
  Warioware touched! is a collection of about 150 micro mini-games which all make use of the DS unique 
 functions.
  In thi game you will not need to press one button as it is all controlled by the stylus and touch 
 screen. The Mini-games are split up into categories such as games that you need to rub the screen, 
 games that you drag things across the screen to games where you use the DS's micophone.
  All of these games are fast and should take no more than five seconds to complete. The trick is 
 that you are given these games in a random order and are asked to complete in a short time period. 
 Once you have completed enough missions you will come to a boss stage which usually requires a 
 lot better reflexes and thought.
  
  The games are just so chaotic and unusual which makes this game special, the humour in this game 
 is just so much funnier than any other game thanks to Wario and friends.
  The reason this game works is because it has been pulled off by the crazy wario, no other video 
 game character can pull off a hilarious party game like Wario can.
  
  Warioware touched does have a huge big flaw that could have made this a must own and that is that 
 it lacks multiplayer, which is strange as it seems like it was designed for that purpose. Also 
 if you are a hardcore gamer this might not be for you. Beside this you are pretty much getting 
 the best use of the DS's hardware so far and will keep you happy until smooth moves comes out on 
 the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tigerman950
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I am at my friend's house right now, and he has a DS and a PSP (spoiled brat) . Anyway, one of his 
 games for his DS is WarioWare Touched. It is rather fun at times, but it gets old very quickly. 
 I, literally, beat the entire thing with every single character today, including those weird-looking 
 bears. The unlockables don't live up to having to scribble, draw, and scratch upon the DS touch 
 screen. Believe me, that is an expensive thing to fix. There are around 15 or so characters with 
 their own set of mini games, each set with their own theme. These themes include scribbling, dragging, 
 circling, and many others. The game starts out and ends very easy. There is not one point where 
 you are forced to throw your DS stylus on the ground and pull your hair out. The easier games are 
 rather fun, let alone unlocking other characters, minigames, and toys. These don't add up enough 
 replay value, so $30 definitely could be spent on something better, such as Mario Kart DS or Metroid 
 Prime Hunters. At this point, many fine games are out for the DS, so purchasing WarioWare Touched 
 would be very pointless. Overall, WarioWare Touched is an average game. However, if you were looking 
 into purchasing this game, don't. Buy something more similar and new. If you are this type of person, 
 I would recommend Brain Age or Nintendogs. Otherwise, spend your $30 on Mario Kart DS or Metroid 
 Prime Hunters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yomommaugly
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 17, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  the score will be higher if it had multiplayer in it don't you agree. it also needs some more characters 
 to get high scores on and more microgames too. the first time i played it was awesome and i were 
 to rate it 8.9 but throught time i started to get bored and all the were hard to pass. My cousin 
 was addictive to it and she will want to have played all the time we saw her. Now she is not addictive 
 as much as before but now and then she wants to play it and she still doesnt have the game. now 
 to tell you about the game. you start off with wario and he shows you his video and then you start 
 his microgames and then on the 9th point you beat his boss stage , but it is mandatory that you 
 beat any of the characters boss stages. then you get mona and jimmy t. in mona you see the video 
 and do the micro games exepct that in mona the boss stage in 11. in the other characters you do 
 the same thing see the video do the micro games and the boss stage. jimmy t. boss stage is in 13. 
 then you unlock jamie t. and the boss stage is in 16. then you unlock ana and kat, asheley, dr. crygor. 
 in ana and kat, asheley, and dr. crygor the boss stage is 13. then you unlock james t and the boss 
 stageis in 16. then you unlock mike and 9volt and 18volt and both boss stages are on 11. then you 
 unlock warioman whichs boss stage is in 15. last you unlock the mixes in which there is no boss 
 stage. the mixes are hardcore, monster and gnarly mix. my record in wario is 71, in mona 94, in 
 jimmy t 108, in jamie t 154, in asheley 85, dr. crygor 125, in ana and kat 104, in james t 176, 
 in mike its 86, in 9volt 71, in warioman 75, in hardcore mix 52, on gnarly mix 71 and on monster 
 mix 69. wario is a fatboy that is weird and owns his own company called warioware inc. where he 
 makes microgames. wario in his video is driving in his motorcycle and sees a sweets shop and he 
 eats some sweets and goes to the dentist because of some problems with his teeth and after has 
 the problem again because he didnt take the doctors order. warios minigames are all about touching. 
 in monas video vanessa gets mad because mona is number one whenshe was always number one. then 
 she calls pizza dinosaur to stop her and destroy her and at the end vanessa joins the band. I cant 
 finish the other videos because its too long and boring and i been here 4 an hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_XX
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 14, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  Tons and tons of mini games on this DS Gamer, you can play certain characters games which will 
 randomally pick games for that character and it will get harder and harder, or try to get the high 
 score in specific games in the album for each character. This game holds hours and hours of fun 
 touch screen mini games that still to this day i do not find boring, you can tell that it did somewhat 
 good because they came out with the Nintendo Wii version of this game WarioWare: Smooth Moves . 
 Graphics are somewhat descent, sound isnt bad, value is awesome, and gameplay is worth buying this 
 game. If you like Feel The Magic XY/XX then you will like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LUI360
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare Touched! is a fun game that will keep you busy and entertained for hours and hours.
 
  
  The gameplay in this game is amazing. Using the touch screen, you get to move, scratch, swirl, 
 drag, point, tap, and more. Some very fun minigames even let you use the microphone. You blow in 
 it to play certain mini-games. The controls are so precise thanks to the ability to use your stylus 
 during the whole game. You will never yell out in frustration, Stupid controlls!!!!!!!!!!! . The 
 gameplay is addictive and always leaves you wanting more.
  
  The graphics, on the other hand, don't really show off what the DS can do. All the mini-games are 
 2-D and merely look like slightly enhanced GBA games. The game tries to have a cartoon style and 
 so you will notice many scribbles and stuff like that during the game. At times the graphics are 
 pretty good, but most of the time they are just good. The same goes for the sound. There is hardly 
 any VO but the music and sound effects are very enjoyable.
  
  I bought this game back in February 2005 and I am still putting lots of time into this game now 
 that it is December 2006. Overall, I'd really recommend this game for the gamers that want a nice 
 pick-up-and-play experience, but also can be turned into a very long game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanboy-buster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  A funny history how I got this little jewel in my hands, it just happened that my brother bought 
 a game for the DS, the worst game I have played in my Life, Marvel Nemesis: Rise of Imperfects 
 (check GS review to see how bad it is) , I told my brother that game was horrible and he started 
 crying (he is only 8) I told him to return it soon after he played the game. But Oh Noes! He openened 
 it! I couldnt return it! But fortunately the clerk was really nice and allowed us to eaxchange 
 the game for another one. My brother chose Warioware, which was a really good choice from him.
 
  
  This game is really good, it is fun for those times when you are bored with nothing to do. The 
 little minigames make good use of the stylus because all the games use it all the 70+ minigames 
 use the stylus and no buttons. Some of them are repetitive but others are a lot of fun.
  
  This game looks..... original.... some of its graphics are waaaaaay too outdated but others are modern, 
 but anyways this game is colorful, lots of colors here and there makes it pleasant to the eye. 
 Its cartoony and funny, this game is all about fun and the graphics make a good work showing it.
 
  
  The music is repetitive, repetititve, repetitive, but as you start raising levels it will turn 
 faster. every character has its own soudtrack as well as each game. But sound gets repetitive a 
 lot, but hey! this game isnt for listenting is to play it putting all your senses into the stylus.
 
  
  It has a decent amount of replay value, becuase you want to get all the micro-games, all the stuff 
 you can win to fill the two rooms, and this gives it a little of value. But the lack of multi-player 
 affects it, but you can play it with a lot of people by rapidly giving the DS to another person 
 to do the next micro-game and so on.
  
  This game is fun for all ages, fun for long trips, fun for everyone, and everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liverpoolraj
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 3, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Full of mini games wich are fun and simple this game is a good game that puts you right into using 
 the touch screen. You dont use any of the buttons on the DS it is pure touch. Working your way 
 through the mini games get faster and faster as you go along. It is a great game to play to compete 
 with others. You can unlock diffrent people to go they have thier own set mini games. After a week 
 or two of constantly playing on this fun game the novolty wears off as you tend to no all the mini 
 games. But it is good fun when you are bored and hopefully there will be a seaquel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodzombie77
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Very few games lately have been able to capture my attention... not to mention my interest, like 
 the Warioware series. The beauty is that it can't really be described other than a game of think 
 fast! , instead of getting hit in the face with a brick you get a game that's innovative a fun 
 without losing any teeth, unless you grind them down with the tension you feel from this gradually 
 fast-paced game.
  
  Gamespot spanked this game with it relies too heavily on the touch screen. Well, the name's Warioware 
 TOUCHED! Granted, use of the buttons as well would've put a nice spin on the title, but Nintendo 
 really needed a title at the time that would make the touch screen more of a neccessity, and this 
 game sure proved that.
  
  If you got a knack for a goofy game that doesn't make you embarrassed to be caught playing it, 
 then Warioware should be up your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Touched is the third installment in Nintendo's WarioWare series it's also the first 
 one to come to the Nintendo DS. The game will have you using the DS's touch screen to beat a rather 
 large collection of random mini-games that I am not going to go into right now because they are 
 so random. There are different sets of mini-games each with their own theme but these mini-games 
 get very repitive after a while and the story mode can be beaten in about one &amp; a half to two 
 hours. But once you have completed the story mode it is still fun to just play some of the mini-games 
 over again. One of WarioWare: Touched's problems is that all of the mini-games are just about the 
 same and get very, VERY! Old after a while and your DS's touch screen may get scratched a little. 
 The graphics are like every WarioWare game they are good and cartoonish which works well with the 
 game. The sound is awesome quirky sounds mixed with a nice soundtrack. WarioWare: Touched! is a 
 great game that just get old after a while but should at least be borrowed or rented.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewuster
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Touched is great game for the pick up a play gamers but after a while the game gets 
 a bit boring.
  The games playable aren't very exciting, for example aiming water at fire isn't fun. My personal 
 favs are the snes/nes games and the mircophone games, the rest are no really interesting.
  However the graphics are sharp and using the touch function and the mircophone is a good new feature. 
 This game has many secrets and mini games but to me they are a bit boring waiting for a grandma 
 to speak is dull.
  The game is fairly simple and should only take a few hours no minutes to get use to the controls.
 
  I think the game should take at least 1 hour to complete if you play non-stop from start to finish. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tellyn
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 7, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware is a brilliant concept that offers a relaxing break from the often frustrating dungeons 
 of Zelda and the worlds of Mario. Being one of the first games to use the DS Touch Screen to its 
 full potential, this game had the chance to be up there with Ocarina of Time in terms of review 
 scores. The letdown? Longevity. Using the stylus, you play over 200 minigames that you have three 
 seconds to solve and progress. You play as different characters (and unlock more as you play) to 
 use Touch and the microphone in the most bizzare scenarios ever imaginable. For instance: a group 
 of people (from a mental asylum?) are trying to cross a tightrope between two precarious cliffs. 
 DON'T BLOW! screams the DS screen. Although it is quite humourous to see the results when this 
 happens (a freak gust of wind blows the wackos off the tightrope, tumbling to their doom - muhahahaha) , 
 you get rewards for completing all the minigames.
  
  The graphics are used well, though not to the full potential, but they fit the game and it's unique 
 storyline very well. Sound and music in the game... wacky and inventive, but not really revolutionary 
 or even that good. As I said in the first paragraph, this game would have been even more wonderful 
 if only there were more minigames. I'm sure the inventive people at Nintendo could have come up 
 with about 150 more with a slight delay in the game's release. Download stations offering extra 
 minigames would have been nice too...
  
  A brilliant concept, if a little short lived. I completed this playing on and off in a couple of 
 days. Hardcore Wario fans (and everyone else for that matter) may enjoy this, but there's not much 
 to do after you've completed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loo-uk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 26, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  Well i bought this game as kind of a risk , but after playing the demo , i was hooked , Wario ware 
 touched is deffinatly value for money , you will certainly get hours of gameplay out of it . allthough 
 the story is kinda short (i finnished it in one day ) you can easily pick it up again with out 
 it feeling repetitive. There are plenty of bonus mini games that will take a while for you to unlock 
 . with amazing sound effects , and nice cartoony graphics and great replay value , that easily 
 beats the gamecube version btw , wario ware touched is a very enjoyable game that will entertain 
 anyone
  so go get it now -- you'll be happy you did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nesenos
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 15, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  i was so excited when i put the wario ware: touched! game disc into the nintendo ds, but when i 
 started the game i got dissapointed because so many says its exciting to play and very humoristic. 
 i should not read all those reviews, i got so dissapointed when i played it after reading all the 
 good reviews. After a while i liked the game a bit better because i eventually got into the game 
 and didn, t get dissapointed anymore. i got the game 3rd august and stopped playing it 13th october. 
 between those days with wario ware: touched!, i said to myself: i won, t play wario ware: touched! 
 anymore im so sick of it , but the next morning i couldn, t stop myself to get out of bed and play 
 wario ware: touched! again, and the same the next morning............, but finally in 13th october, 
 i got so sick of it that i never played it again. Wario ware: touched! can be pretty childish sometimes, 
 poorly. try the game before you buy it, that, s my advice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Girman
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 6, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  When I first got my DS I waz in the hospital. I had my 6th and 7th seizure. Well that night my 
 mom left 2 take care of my pets, so my dad stayed with me and watched Reno 9/11 and then I told 
 him about the DS vs. the PSP. So the next morning about 8:00 I waz playing my GBA SP and my dad 
 went out of the hospital and left. About 15 minutes later he comes back with a DS. It waz so cool. 
 The next day waz my moms turn to get me something. She took me out 2 Gamecrazy and let me pick 
 out a game. I waz thinking of a good game that would use the stylus good. It waz either Warioware 
 or Mario 64 DS. I looked at the back of Warioware and found what I waz looking 4!
  I have never played Warioware but this waz the best ever! Although the mini games were easy and 
 the crazy little minigames were as random as hell, it still sticks to a story of hilarious people 
 in Warios world. Each character has theyre own story and uses different techniques 2 use the 
 stylus. The insanity: every characters techniques r different. The techniques r: Slicing, scwibling, 
 scwabbling, tapping, rubbing, dragging, pulling, blowing, twirling, and scratching. The randomness: 
 tickle him! Throw the ball! Rub the Genie! Punch him out! Slice the fruit! Youll see these lots 
 of times through out the game. The bad part in the whole thing waz that the minigames ruined my 
 touch screen. Now its all scratched. But I really did like this game. PEACE,
  Ellie aka. Girman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scifi_fan
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Touched is a so-so game. The game has its moments, some of it is good and some of it 
 just plain sucks. The sound of the game is impressive. The game has too few mini-games, and you 
 lose interest in the game quite quickly. The graphics are okay, but they can be improved a lot 
 more. The $40 price tag is too much, $10-$15 too much. You dont get enough for $40, maybe for 
 $20-$25, but not $40. I recommend this game to the people who are fans of the WarioWare series 
 and/or people who like to be ripped off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atticus151
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  When i first picked up the DS on launch day, along with Mario 64 DS and Rayman, this was one of 
 the games i purchased. I had also picked up the first installment of the Warioware series on the 
 Gameboy Advanced in the month that it first came out, and was blown away by this new and innovative 
 style of gameplay on the small handheld. I had no idea where the franchise would go, and what new 
 directions it would take, but when i saw this on the shelves at launch, i knew i had to have it. 
 Out of all the games i have, this game has kept me coming back after the longest amount of time. 
 The simple gameplay mechanics enable it to be easy to pick up and play, and the fact it utilises 
 the touch screen to such an extent attracted me to try out the new control method. If there was 
 any game on launch to showcase the capabilities the touch screen had for games, then this was it. 
 As you would guess with a name like Warioware Touched!, you dont need to use the buttons at all 
 throughout the game, instead using the touch screen and on occasion the microphone. For those of 
 you that dont know, Warioware Touched! takes the formula of the previous games, in which it will 
 randomly throw you minigames in a space of 5 or so seconds, and you have to complete the task. 
 As the game goes on the minigames get faster and faster. An example would be unravelling a roll 
 of toilet paper, or drawing a bridge to allow a stick man to walk accross. A nice touch (sorry 
 couldnt resist) is the varied graphical styles throughout the game. You will see plainly drawn 
 stick figures, to 3D objects, and even your old Nintendo games will make an appearance. All of 
 this adds up to a well presented game, and one you will no doubt keep coming back to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rakelhj
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  I have barely touched this game since I got it (which thankfully, I didn't pay full price for) . 
 I'll have to admit it has a certain charm with the style of graphics, fast paced music, characters 
 and various tasks, but it becomes very repeatitive quickly, especially if you decide to maybe, 
 play the games outside of the "story mode" which is a complete waste of time. To give you an idea, 
 you play one mini game over and over while getting less and less time to play it. This can go on 
 forever, and consists of the same stroke over and over and over. It's much better to play the story 
 mode where you perform many different tasks one after another, and even then the repeatitiveness 
 is hard to look over. Overall, this game is definitely not worth $35 and I pity whoever spent that 
 much on it, though I'm not exactly ashamed to have it in my repetriore. If you're considering this 
 game, check ebay first, and consider yourself warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graphikal
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 14, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I got this game alongside my DS, and was the first DS game I played when I first saw it in store. 
 Basically, this game is great for those who want a quick game to pick up and play at anytime.
 
  
  There are tons of different levels to play under each character. Each level must of course be completed 
 in a matter of seconds, but the who touch system makes each level feel unique. The game also incorporates 
 microphone features which is another great feature.
  
  You can practice each level you have completed a character in extras, so you can play you favourite 
 ones over and over again. After completing certain characters, you unlock special mini-games. These 
 mini-games are great fun, and don't revolve around the time factor, rather the gameplay side. Noteable 
 mini-games would have to be the ping-pong game, bubble blower and the metronome - which is a very 
 useful if you are a musician! 
  
  To conclude, if you looking for an interactive and fun game that shows the best of the DS's features, 
 then this game should get a look in. There's tons to do, and a perfect for those who travel a lot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jobies201
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  When I picked up my copy of WarioWare: Touched! I was extremly ecited about it. The game is like 
 all the other WarioWare games, pitting you to complete a bunch of "microgames" in a certain amount 
 of time. The difference is everything in the game is activated by the touch screen, making it an 
 extremly unique expereince. 
  The gameplay is very good, you can play the game for hours or seconds and with so many things tom 
 unlock you will have hours upon hours of fun with this game.
  The sound in the game is not so great. I was honestly annoyed after a little while and preffered 
 playing with the sound off.. There is really no point to the sound except to make stupid noises.
 
  The graphics were great for what they were meant to be. 2d graphics and most of it looks like 
 someone drew it but that is the way the game was supposed to be made so I have no complaints with 
 it.
  The replay value of the game is where it really excells. I have had my copy for months upon months 
 and have still not unlocked all characters and minigames, and all the toys and so on. With so many 
 different things to do the game can be played hundreds of times without losing its value.
  The final thing I will grade the game on is it' level of diffuculty. While the game is very easy 
 when you start out once you get up there in levels it is extremly hard.
  My final word on this game is that if you on a DS I stongly urge you to get a copy. I give it a 
 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prinzofpersia
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 9, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  My father just bought me a DS almost a year ago, and this game was the first he bought me, and then 
 I thought: well that's one heck of a great game... And boy, I was wrong, this game S. U. C. K. S!!!! Just 
 like that!! I't had No story line, NOR an exciting game play, I swear, this game is the worst game 
 i ever played in my whole years of vidio game history!!! And this game is so childish, I almost puked, this 
 shouold be layed by a 6 year old!!!
  needles to say, I got my butt kicked in the first level.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadParrot145
Rating: 4.3
Date: Aug 7, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Wario ware is a joke, i seriously thought that for the first hour i played this game. It goes by 
 exceptionally fast, and its a concept so simple, it just bores me to tears. Though it gets occasionally 
 interesting, (with some of the old memorable nintendo game mini games) its just not worth it because 
 if this games brevity.
  Graphics and sound are colourful, but not of the DS true potentional. In this case, there is nothing 
 notable about the way wario ware looks or sounds. I honestly believe that this game done nintendo 
 no justice, and it makes them look like a joke. Sure we are definatly in need of new concepts, 
 shooters are starting to look the same now, rpgs share elements that make them combined, but tapping 
 on things with a stylus isn't the direction the industry should be going in. If your looking for 
 a DS game to play, its most definatly NOT wario ware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godziilla
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 4, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was pretty fun, although the storyline was pretty lame. You do feel like you're 
 playing a little kid's game at times, but I enjoyed it. The mini-games are very fun & take good 
 use of the Nintendo DS' features. If you like Wario games this is definatley one to add to your 
 collection. If you get this you'll most likely not want to put it down. Totally worth the experience! 
 Also, I think it may be one of the best DS games released so far. Take my word for it, BUY IT!!! 
 Touched, touched, touched, touched, touched! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spyrodrag4
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  i cant believe the ratings this game has got. Wario ware touched is a very short, flawed game that 
 should never get 7.2. the first thing wrong with this game is that it can be completed in about 
 a half hour. A half hour?
  that is far too short to be enjoyable. the next bad thing is that after you complete this game you 
 unlock some pointless things like a glass full of dots that you look at through a microscope! why 
 would you even use that?
  the next bad thing is thegame has loads of rubbish bargain bin cutscenes
  that dont have a place 
 in the game. Also wario ware touched has no replay value! the only good thing about this is the great 
 music in it which is why i gave it a 3.6. just dont buy this game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is super, crazy, super fun, super odd, and super everything. Wario ware on the ds rocks 
 the games are a plenty the weird is up 100% and the garlic tooth paste is wanted. Now while the 
 touch screen works great with all the fun games you wont be dissapointed by the the mini games 
 you unlock the games are super odd and dont fallow any kind of theme except odd. you will spend 
 hours on this fun fun fun crazy cheese filled time so get it now before wario eats it alive like 
 mucus fill spinny things. OK yes i made this reveiw odd becuase so is thie game really the micro 
 games are very fun and it will eat up time like crazy i loved it alot and so will you even when 
 you beet 100% of the game it good for killing a few min. so BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecialED1020
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  Warioware is a fun mini-game, game. Althought there are many on the DS, well it's not the best 
 one... but it's good. Theres a great variety in games. And it takes full advantage of all of the 
 DS' features (touch screen and mic) . There is a ton of stuff to do in the game so it will keep 
 you busy, but it's also grea on the go, because the mini-games are short. But to unlock everything 
 requires you to play the same mini-game many times, although the are fun, playing it 100 times 
 can make you want to try to stab yourself with the stylus. Warioware is a great on the go game, 
 but not one to try and beat. It's jus there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  This was my first WarioWare experience, but definitly not my last. I wasn't quite sure what to 
 expect from this game, however, there was nothing that could have prepared me for what was coming. 
 
  
  If you are familiar with WarioWare games already then you have a general idea of whats going to 
 happen when you pop this in your DS. For those who don't know, WarioWare consists of tons of mini-games 
 that are each shorter than 5 seconds. It throws them at you back to back with zany music and increasing 
 difficulty. You go for as long as you can without "dying." In most cases dying is losing four mini-games, 
 however, in some cases you are only allowed to miss one.
  
  The mini-games each have one simple goal, but you have to think fast to get it. The first time 
 through you'll probably be confused as can be, but after a few attempts it will all start making 
 sense. 
  
  The majority of the game you play on the touch screen, very few actually require you to use both 
 screens. You'll also be doing all the work with the stylus or the microphone. WarioWare makes great 
 use of the DS in this sense, especially for being an early title. The game will have you doing 
 such things as unrolling toilet paper, putting ketchup on a hot dog and fries, fogging up a window, 
 plucking hairs, petting animals, and so much more. Sound crazy? It sure is. 
  
  Graphicaly and musically the game keeps the insanity on the same level as the tasks you'll be doing. 
 As you progress the music will speed up to intense speeds that will really get your heart pumping. 
 The graphics are crazy to. Some are real photos whereas others are cartoony drawings, it really 
 keeps your mind confused in a really good way. 
  
  There are tons of goals for you to complete and things to unlock. My only complaint would be after 
 you've unlocked it all you've played so much of the game that you don't have much will to want 
 to play it anymore. You'll have a blast while you're working your way there though. 
  
  Nothing I say can really describe this game properly, but it's a must have for any DS owner. It's 
 one of the craziest games I've ever played and I think the DS allows for better WarioWareing than 
 any other system (until the Wii) could. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare was an odd idea, that worked. It had a hint of Japanese about it, in that the mini-game 
 had been shortened to 2-8 seconds per game. Now with WarioWare: Touched! Its trying to utilise 
 the Touch Screen and other features of the DS.
  
  The attraction is the mini-games themselves. Thats the whole point. They range from Tapping, Dragging, 
 Drawing, and in one stage case, Blowing! Yeah, you heard right, BLOWING! These are all done very 
 well, but some games don't explain what to do as much as you'd like, while the Microphone just 
 doesn't respond for some games.
  
  The graphics themselves range from the Retro, 16-Bit and in one or two cases, Polygon 3D graphics. 
 However, some just look very ugly, and make you think, "eh?" when you see them. The sound also 
 suffers from the same problem. Thankfully, what bad things do appear/blast out the speakers go 
 away after a few seconds. This is also true for the good, so its a mixed blessing.
  
  Its addictive. Admittedly, it was the first game I properly bought for the DS. I was hooked. However, 
 it took a car journey lasting 4 hours to complete it. Yes, 4 HOURS! And i'd never used a touch 
 screen before in my entire life! You see, the purpose of this game is to get people used to the 
 Touch Screen. Its a showcase. Once completed, there isn't anything left to do, well, not much. 
 Nothing worth talking about.
  
  My suggestion here is, rent it. Its worth playing to get used to your DS, but it certainly isn't 
 worth Full Retail price. It should be a budget game by now, but still, one night. Thats all it 
 really takes, if your devoted.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beltbite
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 7, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Yes Wario Ware Touch. What can I say. When i first played this. I thought that thisd game is stupid. 
 How simple can it get. you move the stylus and do objectives. What the hell? This can not last 
 for long....... I was wrong.......
  Very simple game, with simple objectives, and easy graphics, Hours of gameplay.. For example there 
 is toilet paper on the screen and you use the stylus to unroll the toilet paper before time runs 
 out. There are numerous characters to unlock to do their story mode. there is also toys that unlock. 
 for example there is a calculator that you can use, or a stop watch, and they are all highly interactive. 
 overall this game. is very addictive and a good time killer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta01138
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 5, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware: Touched! is a fun game focused on minigames. The games are like just poke this, turn 
 that, chop this, and so on. The game is pretty fun, but there is no storyline or anything that 
 makes the characters special. Its just Wario and his pals doing CRAZY things. The game takes full 
 advantage of the touch screen and doesnt use the buttons or the D-pad at all (exept for pausing) . 
 You see a short cutscene in the start of a level and at the end. There is also an album which has 
 the games of every character in it and you play them simultaniously for a high scire. But, the 
 games do get faster and you have to complete the minigame before the good-ol Wario bomb goes off. 
 You have about 5 seconds to do so, unless you are going faster than normal. WW: T! has nothing special 
 about the graphics and the sound. The grapics are little interactive cartoons and the sounds are 
 little boings, chimes, pretty much everything else and music. Wario Ware: Touched! is overall an 
 OK game worth trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgurl
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Touched combines mini games coupled with the DS touch screen hardware. The combination 
 of the two results in a fun, quirky game that last longer than most compilation games I've played 
 before.
  
  You're given odd tasks like spreading ketchup on a hotdog, painting fingernails.... things along 
 those lines. I find them to be incredibly entertaining and funny at first glance.
  
  The game provides a good variety of mini games that doesn't become repetative too easily. Mind you, mini 
 games will reappear, but there's a good amount behind it. Yes yes, people do complain about the lack 
 of mini games or how bad this game is, but if you take the time to appreciate what it's offering, and 
 spend less time critiqueing it, than you'll have a good time.
  
  I'm not dissappointed with the game at all. Oh course the gameplay is singular, but it's all in good 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Widger5000
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 1, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  When you enter into this game for the first time it will probably blow you away, from the great 
 hundreds of minigames, to the hilarious storyline. However, you will find that you will have the 
 game easily beaten in 2-3 days. During that time, you will probably not want to put it down until 
 you have discovered all the funny, interactive minigames. About 75% of the minigames are great, 
 about 10% OK and 15% terrible. I recommend it to younger people about (5-10) and older people if 
 you just want to be entertained for a few days with a refreshing expereince to use every aspect 
 of your DS. It incorperates touch, voice, blowing, and dual screens in new ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geitsau
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 30, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  Fun and interesting gameplay, perhaps with a tad few uses of the stylus. Many of the mini-games 
 are almost the same, but you don't notice that too much. Get this game if you want a short, but 
 still amusing touch-screen game. You unlock tons of nice features as you advance in the game, which 
 helps a lot to keep the value. Many of the mini-games are more a test of patience than a test of 
 skills.
  
  Graphics:
  These are terrible. They could've done much more with the graphics, but they work alright with 
 this kind of game. But they're still very bad, so it doesn't score more than a 3.
  
  Sound:
  The regular Nintendo music and sound effects. You'll get used to it eventually. When 
 you reach higher levels, the music gets really annoying. But, every mini-game has its own music, 
 which is a plus. But still, it's not something you really want to listen too.
  
  Value:
  I still find myself playing this every now and then. Unlocking every feature of this game takes 
 a while, though it's not very challenging. But you'll have fun with it for a good while.
  
  Tilt:
  The story is fairly stupid, and so are the characters (besides Wario, of course) . But in 
 my opinion, it's the best use of the touch screen so far on the DS. The game is kind of weird, 
 so I wouldn't recommend it for everyone. Especially those who need good graphics in a game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucasAW
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 25, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware is awesome. The short levels are awesome, the 'boss' levels are awesome, you do everything 
 with the stylus and microphone, you never touch a button which is a nice change from the usual 
 games.
  Every single mini-game within Wario Ware Touched is thought out brilliantly, they are all very 
 original and each have their hilarious little quirks to them.
  
  However, the only gripe that I have with this game is; it simply is way too short. I complete it 
 the same day I started it, which is quite simply not good enough. No matter how much original nintendo 
 charm has been added to this, the ridiculously short amount of gameplay available with this game 
 cannot be hidden.
  
  Overall a fantastic game, with beautiful graphics, superb sound and the best use of the stylus 
 on the DS I've yet seen. Its just a real shame you'll beat the game in about 4 hours. It IS worth 
 playing though, so I either recommend checking the bargin bins, or renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioDS01
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  This was a pretty dan interesting game to play, it just like some other Warioware games, a little 
 too short with the "Main Quest". But none other the less, I enjoyed playing this game.
  
  Gameplay was really unique. You did all these crazy movement with your styus or the mic in these 
 microgames. The micro games where pretty entertaining to play. The gameplay is all good here.
 
  
  The graphics looked really go in the game. Some looked possible beutifully and others can be goofy 
 to look at. The graphics are what made this game really unique.
  
  The sound is really crazy in this game, but still unique and good. 
  
  The value... That depends 
 if you want this as a rental or keep it for all the "Gifts" you earn in this game. Well, I will 
 be waiting for Warioware Smooth Moves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kametsou
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Touched! was one of my first games for the Nintendo DS. After I played this game for 
 the first time, I knew the DS was a revolutionary gaming device that would change the life of gamers.
 
  
  This was my first WarioWare game. Actually, I didn't even plan on getting this game. My sister 
 bought it, and I stole it from her. She didn't seem to notice that I took it from her.
  
  All of the little mini games were humorous, enjoyable and catchy. Everything about the games was 
 awesome. I really liked the little tune going during each game.
  
  The game is so fun at first, but after you beat the game, there isn't much to do and you stop playing 
 it.
  
  If you're new to the DS, definately pick up WarioWare: Touched!. I promise you one thing - you 
 will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 1, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  The game is awesome but it is only about 4 hours long the mini games as usuall are about (at most) 
 20 seconds long. The learning Curve is short really short because of the mini games even in secsetion 
 are about 5 min so the learning curve id say about 10 min anyway the sound is ok it could be a 
 lot better but the graphics are cartoony with a clever style and note the game only relies on the 
 touch screen which kinda sucks but overall it is a fun and enjoyable Game. If you do not like Wario 
 or Mario do not pick up this game if you hate somthing to be over with really quick do not pick 
 up this game if you have a short attention span and love video games Rent it first and if you like 
 it buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkadar
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps the most amazing thing about the WarioWare series is that it didn't debut on the Nintendo 
 DS but in fact preceded the system by quite a bit. The zany collection of 35-second microgames 
 that each game in the series comprises is almost like a giant bag of gimmicksminiature gamelets 
 that provide entertainment for less than a tenth of a minute and that could never be worked into 
 full-bodied games of any sort. This melds so well with the DS' touch screenwhich almost seems 
 to be ahead of its time for the degree of "gimmick" status that it receivesthat one can't help 
 but ponder how on Earth both of them weren't conceived at the same time. 
  
  Whether they are indeed gimmicks or not, the grab bag of microgames in WarioWare: Touched! and 
 the touch screen on the DS form fit so exactly that the former uses the latter almost exclusively. 
 About 95% of the game relies solely on the touch screen for control (yes, at the exclusion of the 
 control pad and buttons) , with a small portion of the game also making limited use of the handheld's 
 microphone. The result is a wonderfully interactive, precisely controlled gaming experience that 
 is new to the world of interactive entertainment. 
  
  With the fine point of the stylus in hand, the player is asked to jab, sweep, and swirl around 
 the screen, doing anything and everything from tracing simple Chinese characters to poking goombas 
 and koopa troopas to death. Collections of microgames are categorized by the types of stylus movement 
 required to complete them, and there is even a group of games that sets out to find creative uses 
 for blowing into the microphonewith some impressive results for such an apparently simple control 
 scheme. 
  
  True to the WarioWare brand, the microgames this time around are never terribly complex, though 
 skill and speedy motions are often necessary to beat the games. Likewise, the graphical style is 
 primarily light and simple, if not bizarre much of the time. But the graphics, like the brief-but-catchy 
 musical scores, join the style of gameplay perfectly in creating a mood of haste and an atmosphere 
 of craziness. All three elements speed up in unison as the player progresses through a series of 
 microgames, serving as a constant reminder that only quicker reflexes will allow survival in the 
 seconds ahead. 
  
  What's truly weird about this mess of extremely short-lived speed tests is how incredibly addictive 
 and fun it is. For those who haven't already discovered this pleasantly surprising aspect of WarioWare 
 games, it isn't too late to get lost in their world of randomness. After 10 or 20 minutes of the 
 madness, most anyone would find himself simply unable to leave the universe of WarioWeed: Transfixed! 
 Indeed, he would be stuck there until the DS' battery runs dry, at which time he is painfully withdrawn 
 from his virtual reality while he desperately searches for the chargerprobably unknowingly gripping 
 the stylus for dear life throughout whole the ordeal. 
  
  One problem this condition presents is that it naturally leads to the completion of the game in 
 a couple of days or less. Even though the number of microgames might seem staggering at first, 
 their intense brevity reduces them to little more than a short stack of tasty but not entirely 
 (ful) filling pancakes. Touched! attempts to provide replay value by giving each microgame an individual 
 high score to reach, but that can end up being as fun as scraping residual syrup off a plate. It 
 is often enticing at first, but too much of it at once leads to gotta-beat-it-100% anxiety rather 
 than enjoyment, and the unchangeable between-level music that's played every five seconds might 
 give way to bad dreams at night. 
  
  After surviving a bout of addiction to WarioWeed, one's thoughts are likely to be focused on two 
 key aspects of the game, one of which won't be its shortness: how unexpectedly fun such a random 
 and untraditional bunch of "gaming" tasks can be, and how great it feels to be directly controlling 
 objects on the screen by touching them. It turns out that the two apparent gimmicks are in fact 
 the best parts, and together they make both the handheld and the game worth owningif that conniving 
 Wario is worth having around, that is
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 27, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  Warioware Touched was an okay game. It was fun for a while, but than if you lose at something you 
 get mad and keep playing. Or you get so mad you either throw your DS at the wall ( not reccomended) , 
 or just stop playing. Then you sell it back for about half the money you payed for it and now your 
 out $15. Though even this one was bad the Gamecube version was pretty good. So if your friend has 
 it ask to play it, but don't go out and buy it your selfand if you do don't blame me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starwars_fan
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 26, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  this game is way underappreciated, and it is a game you will not want to miss. there is little 
 story, but basicly, Wario drops his GBA and GBASP into a sewer and an angel asked if he dropped 
 them or this strange gadget, which is the DS. he steals them all and finally figures out the DS, 
 and thinks that with twice the screens he'll make double the money! its like the other WarioWare 
 games, but you only use the touch screen, not the buttons, except the menus. the games are quick 
 paced and cool. each character has their own game style, like Jimmy T's rub games, Dr. Crygor's 
 spinning games, Mic's blowing (yup, into the mic) games, and finally the 3 bears medley of games 
 with a twist. you also have a game room with toys that are pretty fun sometimes. and also, Wario-Man 
 makes and appearence as a character!!!! so if you like quick paced fun games and have a DS, i highly 
 recomend getting this. and just so you know, my sisters love it, my little cousins like it, and 
 my older cousins like it too, so all ages will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stellom
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 29, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun to play and can get a bit exciting seeing how far or how well you can do, 
 but I'm afraid the games are rather the same and repetitive even in other modes. It does however, 
 use the touch screen very well, but for me the game is better off for being played just occasionally, 
 not really everyday. But if you're a fun mini game lover you'll love this. and if you dont mind 
 playing the games over and over and over and over you'll like this game. I would give this game 
 a 60 if I had to rate it over a hundred. Overall It's a good game, but if you hate cute-style mini 
 games, trust me, you wont like it.
  
  I have only played it once... and I have no intention of ever playing it again, nor do I ever want 
 to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_13est_
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Yes, Wario is here and he is stood on his throne screaming with joy, because this is by far the 
 greatest DS game. Actually, having said that, Mario could give Wario a run for his money, but that's 
 beside the point. Wario Ware Touched is one of the most impressive games i've seen on a handheld 
 consoles in a long time. The minigames to start off with a raw passionate fun, nothing boring spurs 
 from this game. With colourful animations, mad sounds, bright and wonderful characters, easy to 
 play games, basic gameplay and utter genius makes this a game for all ages. The minigames are all 
 individualy challenging but not too challenging, with only a maximum timing of around 5 seconds 
 per mini game, you don't have much time to spend on it. Althought the game is a little too easy 
 for hardcore game, it isn't a fault to completely ruin the game. The different characters have 
 different mini-games to please different people. Ashley for example has mini-games based on dragging 
 things across the screen with your stylus. For example; Dragging coins into a case or dragging 
 the planet earth away from an asteroids path. Wario is packed full of fun and smiles, after all, 
 it's created by Nintendo. Some people might persieve the game as childish and a little on the easy 
 side, but anybody who's buying it for fun value will get the game there wanting. 10/10 on the fun 
 factor. Well done Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeeeU
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 16, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This is the first WarioWare game I have ever played. There are alot of mini-games to play more 
 about 60+. I like that the games has humor in it and random weird mini games. There is also a story 
 to this game, You can get "special mini games" to play with when ever you beat a character .There 
 is a lot of replay value to this game, such as beating the high scores on every game and beating 
 these "bear" mini games. WarioWare Touched is a must have DS game for your collection. So what 
 are you waiting for?! GO BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMYKIA
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 14, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  It's first time I play Wario games, and I must confess I enjoyed it quite a lot.
  A good time. It was fun, indeed, and it waqs worth buying, though maybe it could be a bit cheaper. 
 I'm waiting for Smooth Moves now!!
  I hope Wii version will be even funnier than the DS one.
  Well, we'll see. For what I have seen 
 at the conference and the videos made at E3, the remote controller doesn't have to be moved as 
 shown in the trailers, but it will be better to do it that way!!! Whatever is more fun for me, 
 is worth trying.
  Getting back to WarioWare: Touched! version, I think it is easy to continue the story, but then 
 you can play again with the different characters and rise the level. I have found it is a rather 
 complete game, with many unlockables and an option for practising each game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdh77dsp
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 14, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first Wario Ware game I have played and I was expecting it to be worse (dont ask 
 why I got it) . This game gets old fast, to fast. It takes less than two hours to beat it the first 
 time through and the replay value is not very good. 
  
  Gameplay-8
  The gameplay is ok. It is definatly not as good as it could be. As I said before this game is short, 
 takes less than two hours to completely beat. If you like games with stories you will not like 
 this game at all, there is basically no stroy.
  
  Graphics-9
  There isnt much to judge the graphics on, exept the few the things they put in the little mini 
 game things with few other.
  
  Sound-10
  The sound is suprisingly good. I had expected worse sound since the game wasnt as good as it could 
 be (at first I played it with the sound off) .
  
  Value-8
  The value could have been better but with the rest of the game, with how it is, it couldnt be very 
 much better.
  
  Overall I would not recomend this game, unless you are looking for a game to give to a five or 
 six year old. Most of the time a kid that age wont really care about the story. After they figure 
 out how to do all of the mini games, they will put a lot of time into it. My six year old brother 
 had probably spent atleast ten hours. Then after I traded him it for Mario Kart (yes I know thats 
 a ripoff but he doesnt care) he has approximatly spent seventy-five hours, so total he has spent 
 about 85 hours into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10outof10
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 14, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  Screw twisting. Touching is way cooler than twisting. don't listen to The Gamespot ratings. WarioWare 
 Touched. Each one of the WarioWare characters has his or her very own way of playing the games. 
 Theres poking and cutting and scribbling. And plenty of awesome extras are on WarioWare Touched. 
 You can play the piano and by blowing in the mic you can play that one music thingy. You can play 
 with pudding and color and play with a yoyo or if you feel like it you can play with your boring 
 old grandma. So all around this game is better than Twisted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TakashiMaze
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 14, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  I avoided the WarioWare series for a long time. Usually I like my games to last me 30 hours or 
 so, not 3 seconds. Eventually though, it arrived to me in the form of a late Christmas present 
 and I absolutely loved it!
  Eventually I got myself a copy of WarioWare Touched and although it started out as a blast, it 
 soon got tiresome and I mean very quickly.
  WarioWare Touched is definitely a very innovative game and makes very good use of the DS's touch-screen 
 and microphone features. For example, you may be asked to use the stylus to scratch Wario's back, 
 rock away on a guitar or even swat some pesky insects. The microphone games are also numerous, 
 unfortunately they don't require anymore from you than to simply blow into the microphone.
  There are plenty of mini-games to play through, unfortunately because of the stylus, they are just 
 far too easy now and the only way you could possibly fail at one would be if you didn't understand 
 what to do and run out of time. Another problem with the games is that there doesn't seem to be 
 any levels of difficulty. The game remains constantly easy throughout, providing little satisfaction.
 
  Don't get me wrong though, the game is still pretty fun but because of how pointlessly easy it 
 is, it won't take up much of your time before you put it away and never play it again.
  The audio in the game is pretty funky. Quite a few catchy tunes to listen to during the cutscenes 
 and the games themselves, including some full songs with lyrics of their own. Graphics wise, it's 
 hard to rate it properly seeing as some games are in black & white, flat and static, while others 
 are in full 3D.
  In conclusion, this sort of game would be great to play amongst the family or a group of friends, 
 just passing the DS round and round and laughing at the insane speed of the games. If you are a 
 loner though, I can't recommend this game, it's just not worth the money for such a brief moment 
 of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthBlade100
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware Touched is realy good im soooooooooooooo glad i bought it. it uses the touch screen 
 brilliantly ( well duh all u can use is the touch screen ) . however it works so brilliantly because 
 u can use the mic. to wich is cool. u can blow into it, speak into it whatever. this game is highly 
 addictive so u will spend hours and hours on it. its a short game normally but if you unlock the 
 minier games its a really long game. this games difficulty is just right its not to easy and not 
 to hard so its perfect.
  final verdict: 
  a must buy game for the ds. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshua-X
Rating: 7
Date: May 1, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game isn't bad for what it is. It is actually pretty fun once you get used to it! The 
 game play is okay, but since you only use the stylus for the controls of the game, it does get 
 rather tedious. The graphics aren't that great, but they aren't horrible. The sound effects are 
 annoying, and so is the music, but it's not irritating. The main game storyline isn't really very 
 long, but since the whole game consists of minigames, you might not really care about finishing 
 the main game right away. Overall, it's an okay game that you can play when you are bored, or something 
 like that. Nevertheless, you should see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puremage1209
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  hmmmm..... where to begin... Well, warioware toutched offers genuine, one of a kind rip offs. Almost 
 every single minigame (in the game called microgames) involves just rubbing the screen as hard 
 and fast as you can. The games are very repetative and boring, and the sound sounds like it was 
 done by a bunch of drunk people. The game offers a touch skreen advantage, and it is one of the 
 few games that takes advantage of its hardware. The graphics are terrible. nothing more to say. 
 The "game" is not worth $34, but rather 50 cents. It would be a good game for a little kid who 
 does not relize he is getting ripped off. Although i beat the game, it took me only about two games 
 it get everything for every character and beat all the stuff i got. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggon1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome the minigames are fast and challenging.
  
  The only problem is that you must have a screen guard or you may scratch your screen in the rush 
 of the game.
  
  The gameplay is perfect and the use of the stylus is awsome and works great.
  
  The unlockable 
 things you can unlock are wide spread. Why you would risk your DS for use of the egg timer is beyond 
 me but it works and I used it a few times.
  The sound is catchy and adds to the fastpasted minigames.
  
  There are a ton of minigames that 
 are very fun so you wont be bored anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAtkinson9
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Warioware Touched! is a crazy collection of minigames for the Nintendo DS. The graphics in the 
 game are pretty nice for a 2D game and I never noticed any slowdown during gameplay. Most of the 
 games are pretty straight forward. Cut something, move something, do some math, or count something... you 
 know the Warioware way. What makes this a stand out game is not only the fun gameplay but the replay 
 value. I think it is really fun trying to go back and unlock everything and attempt to beat my 
 high score. Yes, many of the games are very, very quick and easy but that is what makes the game 
 a blast. Different types of games are grouped together with different characters, such as, Sports, 
 Old-School, Wacky, etc. It's a great value, pick it up today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconhalo2playa
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Okay I really think they could of made the graphics better. I mean they really didnt do much to 
 this game. It is a pretty cool game to get if you want an okay game to start off with. It does 
 not really have a story to it except to beat people in different challanges that are not that good 
 at all. I really think that they should have took more time in making this game better and hopefully 
 they will make another one but take a little bit more time on it. I think if they do that than 
 this might be a very popular game. For now though, I would not recommend you in getting this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6595
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware Touched!! is the best in a new series were you have to think fast. You normally have 
 about 5 seconds to complete an easy task. If you complete it you go onto the next level. After 
 every few levels there is a boss stage with no time and is a bit harder. 
  
  Gameplay- This game moves pretty fast. I unlocked every character in about 30 minutes but this 
 game has so much replay value. I would enjoy it if Nintendo made this game a bit longer but it 
 is still one of my favorite games. It also has several toys like a bird that repeats everything 
 you say and a Piano and many others. 
  
  Graphics- There are no, "Wow these are great graphics!" But this game has decent graphics. Nothing 
 special, just normal graphics.
  
  Sound- I love the sound in this game. The music is really funny and the game has little sound things 
 that are kinda whacky. I like whacky. LOL! Well the sound is good and I guarentee you will like 
 it.
  
  Value- OMG! If I could rate higher then a 10 I would. I belive that replay is what they worked 
 on. Once you pass a person it challenges you to make a high score for extra unlockables. This game 
 is not multiplayer except 1 toy. This game is really good and I am not sure about the price. It 
 one of those games where you are always trying to beat your old record.
  
  Wario Ware Touched!! is a good game and I reccommend it to most of the people who enjoy puzzles. 
 Few people don't like the replay value but not many do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liljakey_06
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  this game is realy good im soooooooooooooo glad i bought it. it uses the touch screen brilliantly 
 ( well duh all u can use is the touch screen ) . however it works so brilliantly because u can use 
 the mic. to wich is cool. u can blow into it, speak into it whatever. this game is highly addictive 
 so u will spend hours and hours on it. its a short game normally but if you unlock the minier games 
 its a really long game. this games difficulty is just right its not to easy and not to hard so 
 its perfect.
  final verdict: 
  a must buy game for the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiderSouth
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Touched was a game I was really looking foward to after playing WarioWare Inc.: Mega 
 Party Game$. WarioWare: Touched! did not disappoint me. I have already beaten the game, and I still 
 enjoy playing it. Featuring hundreds of fast-paced micro-games, this keeps your hand flying left, 
 right, up, down and across the touch screen until the end of your run. There's also plenty of bonuses 
 that you'll find as you play the game, many of which could actually be helpful. :P Everyone, Wario 
 fan or not, should try this game, and they will not be disappointed much, if not at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zman101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  This is the first Wario game for the Nintendo ds and it is not all that bad. This game involves 
 you to complete some shall I say weird tasks. Some of the tasks are plucking arm hair, spraying 
 out a fire with pee, and many other wacky tasks. This is one of the top games I own but it could 
 get a tad boring at some times. If you have just bought the ds then this is one of the games I 
 would buy. This game really gets you into using the touch screen. This is one of the games many 
 people own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord_toccsn
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware on the GBA was a fantastic display of pure innovation in a style of game never seen 
 before, so on the DS the game manages to up the innovation ante with full touch screen or microphone 
 making the game just as fun and fast paced as the original and overall is more difficult than the 
 original. The problem with this Wario Ware is that its just not as rewarding to replay it for some 
 reason... namely the extra content is in the range from a few cool games (a lot less than the original) 
 or just plain stupid bonuses with no appeal after one second of experiencing them. So in conclusion 
 the game won't last more than 3-4 hours and won't be replayable past 3-4 more hours so in the end 
 its all about how much you love Wario Ware, and if you love it as much as I do this is still a 
 definent purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobbyBobby85
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  One of Nintendo's finest and most surprisingly good GBA titles is now available for DS. But what 
 makes this one different from the rest, you ask?
  
  Well for starters, this game takes advantage of the DS touch-screen and microphone components to 
 offer a pleasant journey into the wacky, world of Wario. You have well over a hundred minigames, 
 some of which more appealing than others, but nevertheless fun to play. 
  
  The categories are divided into touch-screen play mechanics, ranging from dragging, scribbling 
 and winding as well as a few others. There is even a separate category for microphone minigames, 
 but those are limited to merely blowing into the microphone. The minigames themselves are laid 
 out in mostly randomised order, with a few exceptions (like Ashley's Minigames for instance) , and 
 for the most part the variety and unexpected gameplay is what makes this game fun to play. Despite 
 the official Gamespot review, I find that games that make heavy use of the touch-screen are exactly 
 what the DS needs more of. I don't see how such things can be considered burdensome.
  
  The game might not have grade A graphics, but that is a moot point really, since many of the minigames 
 have their own stylised humor to accompany the action performed onscreen. Of course, there are 
 a few games that offer 3D effects, but the rest of the games are just plain goofy, but in a good 
 way. There are a few times where you may think the game may have benefited from some minor graphical 
 touch-ups, which is nothing to be ashamed of when you think of it. Personally, I would've liked 
 to have seen at least a quarter of the minigames utilize 3D graphics in one way or another, if 
 even if it was a singular object against the flat 2D backgrounds, or at least something like the 
 leash in Nintendogs. Don't ask me, I just think it would've made the game that much more immersive. 
 Nevertheless, the graphics certainly don't hold the game back from being fun.
  
  The sound is well-rounded, but falls victim to lack of creativity. That is not to say the game's 
 audio isn't good, but if you've played the previous Wario-Ware games, you'd understand where this 
 department lacks polish. There are a nice assortment of downright silly tunes and sound effects 
 you can't help but crack a smile at, but it seems the original innovated a bit more when it came 
 to this subject. However, the game does do some more heavy lifting than before, since throughout 
 the game you'll hear much more frequent samples of real vocals, which wasn't possible in the midi-only 
 original. Suffice to say, when it comes to audio in this game, you win some, and you lose some.
 
  
  Thankfully, this game is diverse enough to offer great replay value. Several unlockables and unique 
 easter-eggs are more than enough to keep you playing this game for a long time to come. There are 
 times you may make yourself believe you're "bored" of this game, but give it a few weeks, and it's 
 easy to realize how fun it is to challenge yourself to conquer past high scores. It's also a fun 
 game to have with you on the go, since you are not committed to merely "beating" this game. What 
 makes the WarioWare games so great is the series function as a simplistic pick-up-and-play title. 
 The game is perfect for any DS owner of any skill level, since it has a whimsical attractiveness 
 to hardcore and non-gamers alike. 
  
  If you have a DS and don't have this game, I suggest picking it up right away. If you do have this 
 game, please take a moment and appreciate how much fun this game offers, and consider playing it 
 again for old times sake. It's a game no DS owner should be without. Here's to hoping they make 
 a sequel... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eaglefan831
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  when i got this game i thought geeze another 1 week game but was i shocked it lasted way longer. to 
 start off this is the funniest game ever i mean the begging cutscen is very funny. the levels are 
 just hilarious i mean one level your're in a nose cave, next your rollin toilit paper, then your 
 rubbin a lap, i think you get my point it's funny. although it is very short it will last you a long 
 time there is only one bad thing is my ds screen was in fine shape before i played it but now it 
 is really scratched up. over all this game is awsome to bad i can't play it till lent is over cauze 
 i gave up my ds. so if i were you i'd buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_god_
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Man this game is addicting. I play this game for about an hour or 2 every time i get on the ds. 
 and for a hand help that is a lot for me if im not playin zelda. cuz im not big on the hand helds. 
 wario ware is a absolutely addicting game with many different little many games to play around 
 on. very very fun and i recommend it to anyone who has a DS. You definitly will not be disapointed. 
 i kno i wasn't, i bought it right as i got a ds, i got a ds abour 2 months after it cam out cuz 
 i am in no hurry of buying a hand held. just senseless to me if your not a big traveler, y not 
 play PC or a console if ur gunna be at home or at a friends house? but if you do get a Ds Warior 
 Ware is the **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schox5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Once I got the WarioWare for Game Boy Advance, I was very impressed. It was took me a while to 
 beat it, the game play was catchy, it was very original, and addicting. This game has all of this, 
 but just isn't as good as the GBA one.
  
  Basically this is one big game of 'microgames' that last about 3 seconds each. It may not sound 
 like a fun game, but this is very addicting, and you have to make split second decisions, because 
 the games come up right after each other. This game is very easy to play. There are tons of games 
 to play. Just that the game is over way too fast.
  
  I'll start with the positives:
  1. Very original
  2. So addicting, you can't put it down
  3. Catchy tunes
  4. Has a lot of 
 unlock-ables
  
  Now with the negatives.
  1. Over wa-aay too fast.
  2. No multi-player
  
  All in all you may want to buy this game, since its one of the best games 
 for DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troglodyte100
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  WarioWare: Touched (referred to as WWT herein) is another notch in the franchise's gun, proving 
 that there is always room for Wario's games in this world. However, the gunshot must have had a 
 silencer or something, because it seems to lack some of the luster of other WarioWare titles. The 
 formula hasn't really changed, but the game is far too short and pathetically easy. 
  
  In WWT, Wario returns, as usual, with big ideas for Nintendo's new portable console. He brings 
 along old friends Mona, Dr. Crygor, and 9-Volt, among other faces (old and new) , to help him create 
 a whole new batch of microgames. Now, I haven't played much of other WarioWare titles, but these 
 microgames seem as fun as ever. From petting a puppy to stripping Wario (0_O) , the games are fresh 
 and funny, and despite what Gamespot says, the stylus doesn't slow things down a bit. There are 
 even games where you use the microphone instead.
  
  WWT is incredibly, pathetically, unbelieveably short, however. Good gamers will beat it in only 
 2 days, have most of the unlockables, and only have to repeat the first-time sets 7 times or so (most 
 will be on Ashley's boss fight, it's tricky) . The microgames can be challenging enough, but once 
 you get the hang of it, they are pushovers.
  
  In short, WWT is good, but pathetically short. Most rental stores don't rent out DS games but if 
 your one does I suggest you rent it and never buy it. If your store doesn't rent DS games, though, 
 don't ignore WWT totally. See if your friend has it or something, try it. You may just find enough 
 charm to warrant a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaxex
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  Warior Ware touched is a decent game that makes the most out of the touch screen. You basically 
 go through hundreds of mini-mini games using the stylus and even the microphone to progress through 
 the game.
  
  Wario ware: touched is certainly a party game that Nintendo is famous for. THe game makes little 
 to no sense and many of the mini-games are things only the japanese could think of.
  
  You can play over 100 mini-games and if yu want try getting a high-score on any of them, every 
 new stage gets harder and faster which makes the game very challenging at times, but allows for 
 loads of re-playability.
  
  The touch-screen responds well as does the microphone if you drag somewhere it'll work if you blow 
 into the microphone it''ll work. The mini-games will have you doing so many random things like 
 unwraveling toilet paper, swatting flies, having planet battles, making statues, poking cats and 
 loads more. 
  
  These games, as random as they are, are a great deal of fun and can keep you playing for ages. 
 The sound is catchy and the design is unique. 
  
  Wario ware: Touched for the Ds is one of the, if not the, most fun games there is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryouninja
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 26, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  The micro games were preaty good but it got really anoying. some of the gifts where really stupid. 
 I liked the mic. mini games but it was still kinda stupid. the gaphix wern't that great eather. 
 Im'e still workin on it but i dont play it much now. In a wrap it wasn't really that good but it 
 was the first game you can't really blame them (actually you can!) Some of the micro games really 
 sucked the worst was the one where you had to be quiet it really ticked me off cause i always talk 
 or blew ...... O. K. see ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fated_Eclipse
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Touched is an awesome, very innovative title. The player interacts with the game in 
 several ways, including the touch screen and the built in microphone.
  This game is all about minigames. You select from a bunch of characters on the screen, and play 
 their minigames. They all have different games, and some of them are quite interesting. One set 
 of minigames has you blow into the microphone to accomplish your goals, while another has you do 
 various things, such as popping bubbles, by using the touch screen. 
  This game has a very simple concept behind it, but the game will have you addicted after the first 
 few minutes you play it. You will want to play all the games, and you will want to try and get 
 farther and farther each time, because as you complete each little game, another game will pop 
 up, and the speed will slowly increase until you eventually get a game over. You get three mistakes, 
 and then after that you are done.
  Not really too much else to say about this game, it has a very simple idea behind it, but it is 
 entertaining... for a while at least, then you probably won't be too interested, but it is a good 
 game none the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booo95
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I got this game 2 days ago and I'm addicted to it, in fact I'm playing it right now. This has a 
 high level of gameplay because it's addicting. It's the usual weird minigames that make you wanna 
 play more and more and more. Also they put gold digger, the nose picking game from the first two 
 wario ware games, in this game. Unlike other games in the series this game this game has a toy 
 room with all sorts of extras ranging from a kitchen timer to a bubble blower. The only down side 
 is that it doesn't have a very wide veriety of minigames as the first 2 games. You must get this 
 game if you own a ds and like wario ware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorecs
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  This game is fun but i beat it way to fast i mena i spent like 50 bucks on this game when it first 
 came out and i beat it in 2 hours thats pathetic. ont buy this game unless you see it for 10 bucks 
 i mean realy i can play on the computer and not get sick of a game for way more than 2 hours. Its 
 fretty fun but not worth the little time it gives out i mean there are like 150 minigames and each 
 minigame at the most is like 5 seconds. I thought it was fun but i will tell you my favorite minigame 
 it is the one where you strip wario and its funny this is like a secret after you do the thing 
 then pull of warios pants and then there will be a leaf hehe! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunderground2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  Wario ware: Touched is a very good game. It just gets real boring after playing it for awhile the 
 graphics are .. good and the controls are decent. the sound gets to be anoying after a short period 
 of time. The best part of this game is unlocking items for the toy room. There are a lot of characters 
 with there own kinda unique mini games. As i said before the toy room is the best part of this 
 game. the mini games do really get very boring after playing them once or twice. overall wario 
 ware is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_tom_2k6
Rating: 2.9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  i remember back on march the 11th me and my friends came back from the shops with our ds's and 
 this game we got addicted with the nose picking and everything but there when i got home played 
 it for an extra half an hour it was boring there was nothing to do the graphics were bad i ment 
 its more than a 64 gigabite system nintendo 64 games were not as bad there was nothing to it just 
 wiping blackboards even then they were just trying to get us to think 'wow a part gameboy with 
 two screens and a touch screens and even then there was more to it' it is boring as hell it was 
 a rip off but then hopefully i took it back and got mario ds which was far better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brightshadow525
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware: Touched is a great game, until you beat it. It really is way too short. If you're new 
 to the whole Wario Ware thing, its really not just one game, it's a whole bunch (somewhere in the 
 hundreds) , of minigames that you play. For example, you choose your character at the beginning. 
 Each character has a certain number of minigames. You see a little start-up screen, then the minigame 
 starts. You win or lose. Start-up screen comes up again. Minigame. You have 4 lives. Lose a game, 
 lose a life. Boss stage comes about every 10 or so levels. Simple, yet fun and addictive. The gameplay 
 is great, and it incorporates the touch screen very well. However, the lack of a length for the 
 entire game lowers the score. Also, what dissappointed me even more was that you couldn't hook 
 up to other DS systems and play multiplayer which really was the best part about Wario Ware on 
 the GC. The graphics weren't as stunning as I thought they would. Sound was fine. The sounds went 
 well with the visuals, and I thought they did a great job with that. Over all, the shortness brought 
 it down, and I think they could have done a much better job with this, and I think they rushed 
 this a lot. Please do better on the next Wario Ware Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  You know, if you're absolutely dying for a new WarioWare fix, Nintendo's new DS installment, WarioWare: 
 Touched!, fits the bill. It does most of the things the other games in the series do, only it does 
 them with the touch screen instead of a D pad or any buttons. Unfortunately, that's also where 
 this installment sort of falls apart. It's a good product, overall, but its overreliance on touching 
 means that many of the microgames have you doing the same sort of activity again and again. WarioWare's 
 greatest strength has always been its variety. But without that same variety here, WarioWare: Touched! 
 gets old fast. 
  
  
  The same basic story concept from the first game applies here. Wario loves money. Hey, who doesn't, 
 right? In this installment, Wario manages to get his hands on some kind of newfangled dual-screen 
 handheld game system, so he quickly sets his old plan back into motion: exploiting the locals to 
 create microgames for him so he can keep all the profit for himself. Touched! doesn't really have 
 a story arc, per se, but each set of games is associated with a character, and each character has 
 an intro and an epilogue that bookends his or her levels. 
  
  The gameplay also sticks closely to the WarioWare concept. Your job is to play through these microgames, 
 one after the next. You never know which one you're going to see next, and each clocks in somewhere 
 around the five-second mark. Each has one simple task that you're asked to perform, and all these 
 tasks involve the touch screen or the DS's microphone. You'll pop balloons with the stylus. You'll 
 pop bubbles with the stylus, too. You'll even have to pop some of those little air bubbles that 
 come wrapped around carefully shipped items with the stylus as well. Popping aside, there is some 
 variety here, but most of the games involve tapping the screen in a specific spot, dragging an 
 item around the screen with the stylus, drawing lines on the screen, or some combination of all 
 three. The microgames stick to the same style found in other games in the series, and some of them 
 have a great deal of charm. Also like the other offerings in the series, Touched! throws a bone 
 to nostalgia fiends in the form of a section of games that are modeled after classic Nintendo games. 
 In one of the Mario-themed ones, you'll have to poke a bunch of Super Mario Bros. question blocks 
 to get coins. A Legend of Zelda-style game has you prodding fairies before time expires. Metroid 
 makes an appearance, too, in the form of a contest where you must drag metroids off of Samus and 
 keep them away until time expires. 
  
  With the constant poking, dragging, and drawing these contests throws at you, it's easy to get 
 good at them awfully fast. If you're cool under pressure, were any good at the previous WarioWare 
 games, and are handy with a stylus, you'll get through the entire game in around an hour and a 
 half. Of course, you won't have seen every single microgame or unlockable object if you just blaze 
 through it. Most of the unlockable items are just weird little toys to mess around with, though 
 some of them are really, really neat. One is a little electronic harmonica that plays when you 
 blow into the microphone. (The buttons on the system are used to play different notes.) 
  
  
  The look of the game hasn't changed much from the original GBA WarioWare. The art style is 
 still completely insane, though the sequences that lead in to and out of each level aren't terribly 
 interesting. The music that plays throughout each level speeds up and gets more and more manic 
 as you play, and it syncs up with the action well. The music in Ashley's stage even features full-on 
 English vocals, which is a nice touch. 
  
  WarioWare: Touched! leans way too heavily on the DS touch screen for its own good. Touching may 
 be good, but in WarioWare's case, touching is practically all you'll do, so unlike the WarioWare 
 you know and love, it gets boring. If the games had a little more variety, it wouldn't be a problem. 
 But as it stands, too many of these games have you doing the same type of activity, which isn't 
 exciting for very long. Fans of the series are advised to wait for the next GBA installment in 
 the series, WarioWare: Twisted. That one's already out in Japan, and it's much, much better. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimateblader
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 13, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  great great game best game tht only uses the stylus. so many different games tht hav different 
 uses for the stylus well well well you shld get this game. jst trying to tell you all tht this 
 is one of the best games out and its one of the first thts right the firsts. if your looking to 
 scatch ur touch screen then this game will do it for your so just buy it as soon as possible* * 
 * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
  also beyblade rocks any bladers out there send us a message in my blog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghog2293
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 13, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is overall pretty fun, funny, and addictive. The only problem though is that after about 
 a week it'll be the same old thing. If they added about 40 more minigames it'd probably last longer, 
 but if a friend has it you might want to borrow it instead of using $30 on it and having it get 
 old quick. I beat it in about 2 days. If you're a crazy person who'll play it for like 6 hours 
 you might get it done in a day. So, pretty much, really really fun and addictive but after a week 
 or two it'll get boring and then you might play it occasionly after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feelgoodinc2005
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  If you like wario ware games, you will like this. Maybe even some newcomers of wario mare might 
 like it. This is fun, yet, sometimes, you're frustrated that the game couldn't be more colplex, 
 and, not sooo easy to make. I would prefer the one on the GC, but if you only have a DS, buy this. 
 This game has good sound. The problem is that you mostly use the stylus and the mic, that the minigames 
 are so different from the game cube and the game boy. Still, if you want fast paced, haert beating 
 games that you have to memorize to beat, this is the game you need. If you are old, and might have 
 a hard attack, i wouldn't recomend it. The other problem with wario ware is that, there is no story 
 mode where you have to go thru everything to beat it, and, there's not enough levels to play. This 
 game is a game i wouldn't recomend for people who don't think that using the mike and stylus is 
 the most important thing in the world for a nintendo ds, and i do think that non-ds fans will absolutely 
 not like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 9, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  The same, the same. Excatly the game. Always the same, just with touch-screen only. Yes. Mario's 
 evil sidekick, Wario has his own... !!!!! I just mean, why is his games completly the same? Wario 
 Ware Twisted was different, because you didn't even need to lift a finger. 
  So what is this got to do with the others then? It is basicly all the WarioWare games just with 
 touching and blowing - for four seconds - making you lose easily, and not seeing how beautiful 
 the graphics is.
  
  There is to need to avoid this game if you are a Wario fan. But when I really wanted a Wario game 
 on the Nintendo Dual Screen, I throught it was going to be a Wario Land game, a game that made 
 everybody happy a few years ago on the Gameboy. This dissapointment is the same, and ugly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  Touched is the newest Warioware game. This game may look fun but it is not. Nintendo should have 
 put a warning label on this game saying "If you are rich and like very short games buy it, but 
 if are not don't waste $35 dollars on this game." 
  The gameplay is fast pace and fun but is too short. The graphics can be good and bad on this game. 
 The sound is good but some levels suck. The Ashely level has the best music. Nintendo usually has 
 great value (so does Intelligent Systems the minds of Advance Wars) but not here. I like Wario 
 games and Nintendo so the tilt saves it a little.
  MY SCORE 2.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RemmyX25
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 26, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it. Not many DS games has made great use of the touch screen feature. Sure, you can 
 tap selections on menus or access different maps and such. So far the only thing with touch screen 
 use is PictoChat. Until now. Wario Ware Touched is one of the few games that require great use 
 of the touch screen. In the manual, it even says the A, B, X, Y buttons are never used. NEVER. 
 All selections are touch screen based. Some Microgames require you to slice things, while others 
 drag or spin around. My personal favorite is 9-Volt's Retro games, which require you to tap coins 
 or do other retro gaming things. 
  Also in this game are little gadget type things, reminiscent of Mario Party Advance. They are unlocked 
 by clearing a stage, or getting the highest score on some stages. All the original WarioWare Inc. 
 gang is back, plus newbies like Mike the Karaoke machine and Ashley, a young witch.
  
  Unfortunately, you can unlock all the characters in a few hours. Luckily, the game makes you want 
 to master each and every microgame in its inventory and get the highest score on each. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtimandan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  There are 128 reviews on this game prior to mine, and I agree with the consensus that it's an all-around 
 good game and a nice addition to the series.
  
  This version of Microgames is perhaps the one I've found most enjoyable, particulary the story 
 with the evil little girl in it. Her games seem more interesting to me in addition to being more 
 fun to play.
  
  Since there are so many reviews already for this game, I'll keep it short & sweet: Great game and 
 worth the price of admission!
  
  The controls are superb, even though the entire game is played via the stylus [as an aside, I have 
 big hands and find the Nintendo stylus way too small, causing hand cramps rather quickly; I recommend 
 the metal Palm-type PDA styli instead; they're heavier and longer, therefore more comfortable for 
 extended DS playing, but they don't exactly fit in the DS's stylus storage hole] .
  
  The sounds are Microgame-minimalist but nicely done here and the voices are just like they are 
 in the GBA version. The story is lame, so ignore it and instead focus your efforts on playing thru 
 the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadster
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  after playing the original WarioWare on the GBA i was totally impressed just how much fun was to 
 be had from nintendo's anti hero series, and i gotta say they've done it YET AGAIN!!!
  although i was expecting to some dissapointment from the next helping of wario.... ya know.... I 
 wasn't!
  i was pleased every time i ever picked up my DS and played this little gem
  this game makes excellent use of the handheld's microphone and touchscreen hardware.. i never had 
 a dull moment with this game running
  even after beating all the high scores on this game... i found some of the extras quite novel
 
  this game i can honestly say is for the following gamers:
  Nintendo fans
  Retro-gamers
  Puzzle gamers
  Innovationists (ie: gamers who like games with a difference)
  and quite possibly 
 minimalists
  
  this wouldn't appeal to the following:
  Hardcore gamers
  Anti Nintendo fanboys
  Strategy gamers
  and casual gamers
  
  overall: one awesomely 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packymaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! The first game for the Game Boy Advance was very good, and then they made it 
 for Gamecube, which was also very good. Then this one happened, and the touch screen was put to 
 use. The mini games are fantastic, and I hope Nintendo keeps this series going. Wario was never 
 a favorite character of mine, but now I like him. Nintendo was really thinking when making this 
 game. The randomness of the odd mini games is very clever and funny to play. I think of this game 
 as an instant classic, which should last a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paine128
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 17, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Touched! is one of the wierdest games I have ever played. Cool, but weird. There are 
 more than 5 characters and within those characters, they have their own games. Weird games. The 
 game is very fun to play and it's for all ages. Weird..... I can't stop saying that for the fact 
 that this game is so flippin' weird. When I got this game, I wasnt sure whether to continue playing 
 or just plain laugh at it because of the games. The games have comical scenes and when you beat 
 the games itself, it would bring out the mini games and that is even funnier. I recommend this 
 game because of its weird humor. It would keep the player laughing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluejay64
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 3:50 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware Touched is not a bad game, just not a great game either. The main fault I see with this 
 touch screen incarnation of the wario ware franchise is not the length, which is short, it is not 
 the difficulty, which is incredibly easy, but the layout of the minigames.
  
  One of the greatest features of the first WarioWare game was the randomness of it all. The shuffled 
 collection of strange and crazy 3 second minigames mixed with retro based ones was a pleasing and 
 frantic premise. The worst design choice with Touched was to organise its minigames into sections 
 consisting of scratch, blow or circling minigames. This makes the games predictable and takes away 
 the frantic fun of the original. Although the unlockable bear collections which take all the minigames 
 and throws them at you at random brings back the joy of the original WarioWare game, these sections 
 are too little and too late.
  
  In summary, Touched is a fun, easy short game hampered by its minigame layout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALeeFan12
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 12, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This was the best game i ever bought for the ds. You play a ton of mini games for the character 
 that you choose to play. All the characters in this game have a different story. One of the bad 
 things about this game is some of the mini games are very hard and some of the story is boring. 
 But that doesn't madder. The mini games are very fun and will make you laugh. Like you get to play 
 wack a mole with cats instead. You will win prizes that you can play with in the treasure room. 
 Some are pointless and some are funny. If you haven't played this play this it is very good. A 
 9.7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Warioware touched is the second handheld entry for the Warioware series, a wacky series with lots 
 of mini-games. Just like in Warioware twisted, you play lots of mini-games, only this time you 
 use the stylus instead of turning your GBA, which is now a Nintendo DS. The stylus works great, 
 although at times, you almost feel like your just playing on the bottom screen, almost making the 
 top screen useless. You go through lots and lots of mini-games in this somewhat short and easy 
 story that is somewhat satisfying, but also a tad repetitive.
  
  Warioware touched has an interesting story. Just like in Warioware twisted, you play as lots of 
 different characters and basically have to play twenty or so mini-games and then you face off against 
 a tough mini-game at the end, which is actually pretty easy. The story is pretty strange, but basically 
 ends up with Wario trying to make lots of money and screwing up once again. Although each of the 
 characters you play as has their own small stories, it basically revolves around a bit of the story 
 being told for that character, then going through the mini-games, and then the rest of it being 
 told as the conclusion. Do this for about 4 hours or so and then youve finished this short game. 
 Warioware touched doesnt really do much for the series, but it does have some interesting stories 
 in the characters.
  
  The mini-games you play are pretty diverse, but by the end of the game, you will have played through 
 the same ones at least once or twice. All of them have you doing simple things such as, moving 
 boulders with your stylus so people can get through, guiding people through one point to the other 
 in a darkened room, or just squashing bugs with the stylus. Although this sounds a lot like Warioware 
 twisted, its mainly because it is. The mini-games are almost taken strait from that game, switched 
 from having to turn your DS to using the stylus, and then shipping the game out. Even the characters 
 have been recycled. 
  
  If you mess up in these mini-games, you then have three chances to make up for. If for some reason 
 you cant get past these mini-games for each character, you have to then go back and redo that 
 entire mini-game character! It really isnt as bad as it sounds, although each mini-game is randomized 
 for that character, so if you go through the same character, you wont be doing the same levels 
 each time. 
  
  The graphics in Warioware touched are bright and colorful. They really are nice looking and the 
 textures are spot on, although I wish there could have been a bit more activity on both screens. 
 No matter whats happening, not much is going on, even in the mini-games. Still, this is a nice 
 looking DS game, especially since the DS isnt hardware accelerated like the PSP.
  
  If you complete the campaign, which shouldnt take you long, you then can go to all the extras. 
 Although no multiplayer, you do have the power to play specific mini-games as some are a lot of 
 fun, you can also play extra games, such as ping pong with the stylus which is also reminiscent 
 of the Warioware twisted GBA turning version, but its still an interesting take with the touch 
 screen. 
  
  Warioware touched sound isnt as impressive, the looping music is just annoying, theres no voice 
 acting, and the booming sounds that play when you mess up is equally annoying. Youre best to just 
 turn the sound off, which is simple and effective. 
  
  Warioware touched isnt without problems, namely repetition and originality. But the DS controls 
 are spot on and I had some fun moments with this game, so if you want to experience Warioware twisted 
 from a different standpoint and dont mind some repetitive and un-original gameplay, and a rather 
 short campaign, then you cant go wrong with Warioware touched.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeldafreak108
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare: Touched! is a fun game, and many games to play and enjoy, but the real problem with 
 this game is that it gets boring after you beat it and games you can play get repetitive over time.
 
  
  Gameplay-
  Basically you see a little animation scenes of the character you choose and then you play mini 
 games that are random and continue to get faster and faster till you lose all your lives. Its fun 
 because you can test how quick you are at the games and compete with others to see who can get 
 the better score. The games tend to get boring after you played over 50 times or maybe even 100 
 times. This game is still worth buying though.
  
  Graphics-
  Nothing much to say about the graphics except they are unique and sort of out of whack.
  
  
 Sound-
  There is not too much music in the game if you think about it because when you play games you tend 
 to ignore the music.
  
  Replay Value-
  There is a lot of replay value in till you beat the game then you seen to lose interest in playing 
 the game at all. 
  
  Overall-
  This game is good, but needs better replay value and I think it is a good enough game to buy, but 
 just not at its full price.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie_IV
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware: Touched! is an incredibly bizarre and incredibly fun experience, a sort of game that 
 rarely comes along, yet is often remembered for years after it's release. After falling into a 
 manhole, Wario, the star of the show, meets the Sewer Guru. After receiving (read: stealing) a 
 Nintendo DS from the old man, Wario comes to the conclusion that by developing his unique brand 
 of "micro-games" for the dual-screened system, he can make twice the money. And to Wario, money 
 is all thats important in the world.
  
  Your goal in this game is to play each of the micro-games that are thrust onto your screen, completing 
 them within the time limit and then moving onto the next. The catch to all this is that each game 
 lasts around five seconds, and they constantly speed themselves up. There are boss stages ever 
 dozen games or so, each of which is longer and more complicated than a normal micro-game. It should 
 be noted that on your first trip through a stage, the game does end after you complete the first 
 boss game. This appears to be nothing more than a method of helping you, the player, adapt to the 
 various micro-games that each stage offers. On subsequent play-throughs, there is no end whatsoever 
 to any of the stages. Your goal then is only to play through them to achieve as high a score as 
 possible so that you can brag about doing so to your friends. 
  
  What's really unique about this game is that absolutely everything that you, the player, do in 
 this game is controlled by the system's touch screen. Aside from the one set of microgames that 
 are controlled by blowing into the system's microphone, everything revolves around manipulating 
 the touch screen. Each game is controlled by mechanics like poking, rubbing, or drawing lines on 
 the screen with the DS stylus. Some of these games involve things like slicing through fruits and 
 vegetables, others require you to disarm a ticking time bomb. Some of the more bizarre games involve 
 things like making a black hole absorb various objects in outer space, or invading the insides 
 of a person's nostrils to retrieve buried treasure.
  
  This all works relatively well, as the touch screen is generally very responsive and there usually 
 aren't any problems at all with hit detection. However, eventually it becomes clear that some of 
 the games are a bit easier than the should be, as they give an incredible amount of room for error. 
 This is especially true of the games that require you to draw lines on the screen, as they tend 
 to feel like nothing more than connect-the-dots exercises. Still, this usually tends to disappear 
 as the game speeds up, since you actually need a little more room for error to make up for lost 
 time. Some might be turned off by the fact that this game uses the touch screen almost exclusively, 
 but in all honesty it's something new for a handheld game, and the execution is about as good as 
 one could expect from a game like this.
  
  As mentioned, there are some games that require you to use the system's microphone to control them. 
 Most of these are contained to their own stage, although there are a few that show up elsewhere. 
 In these, you must do things like move a sailboat or keep an old man suspended in the air. Controlling 
 a game with your breath is unusual, at the very least. Blowing on a screen for a long period of 
 time can eventually wear you out and look incredibly strange in public to boot, so many people 
 might want to limit the amount of time that they spend playing these games. They're still fun though, 
 even though some might be annoyed with this new method of game playing.
  
  Graphically, the game looks absolutely gorgeous. Everything has a bright, colorful look to it. 
 While most of the games hold onto a cartoony look, at times you'll find a few where comical photos 
 of actual people are used. Also included is a collection of games based on old NES titles that 
 attempt to mimic the graphics of the original games as closely as possible, while taking a few 
 liberties with them at times. This all contributes quite well to the game's crazy atmosphere, as 
 you'll never be quite sure what you'll see next. While everything has a cohesive look to it, the 
 game's art style can change at a moment's notice for different games. It's this kind of thing that 
 can make you, the player, want to play through everything just to see all the different odd surprises 
 that the game has in store.
  
  The game's audio is incredibly strong as well. Each stage has it's own unique soundtrack. Some 
 of the individual micro-games also have their own unique songs. What's most surprising is that 
 some of the songs have lyrics to them that play along as you play the game. Altogether, the game's 
 sound has the same strange and far-reaching qualities to it that the graphics and gameplay itself 
 have, and does more than it's fare share to help the presentation look as good as possible.
  
  There is a lot to be seen in Wario Ware: Touched! Aside from the regular collection of micro-games, 
 there are also a few challenge stages which draw from the regular collection of games to put you 
 in new situations. There are also several unlockables "souvenirs" which are basically different 
 toys that make use of the system's touch screen and microphone in different ways. Still, even with 
 all the extra odds and ends, playing through the game's stages over and over to gain higher and 
 higher scores is what's best about it, and thankfully the fun of doing so lasts for an incredibly 
 long time.
  
  Overall, Wario Ware: Touched! is one of the best games available for the Nintendo DS. It has nearly 
 limitless replay value to it, and can last almost anyone for months. It might disappoint some people 
 that playing through all of the micro-games once and reaching the end of the game's story doesn't 
 take very long, but the true fun in this game comes from playing through everything over and over 
 again. It's a game that shouldn't be missed, because it manages to start out fun and stay that 
 way for a very long time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crumbly_b
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Wario ware, inc. i have always LOVED. but i knew they were short. But the DS game is also too easy. 
 But it is sooooooo fun! Kinda crazy, if you will. You know that feelin you get when you have 100 
 expensive items in your pockets and you keep lookin backwars to see if you dropped any, well its 
 nothin like that. Its more like, sleeping in 15 minutes more than usual, knowing you shouldnt so 
 then you have to rush, then you're late for work but just the rush is kind of fun? its more like 
 that. the graphics arent top notch but they kool. Everything is all good in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CM_Floyd
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare is the SH#T! I can't get over how highly addictive this game is! Nintendo has done it 
 again! Never have I played a game so random and exciting. The odd mini-games will surround you 
 in excitement and leave you wanting more. So many different games, each more fun, exciting, inventive 
 and outrageous that the last. This was the first game I ever bought for my DS and the last one 
 I'll sell when I trade in my DS for bigger and better things. It's Fun! It's Wacky! It's Exciting! 
 And I wouldn't have it anyother way! It's so fun, I think I'll go play it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ferret123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  this is just another gamespot mess up for a review. they gave it a 7.2. i mean wow. thsi game is 
 way better. there are lik 100 games. probably more. and they are all fun to play over again, unlike 
 fell the magic. and there are more stupider storys, but they are more funny. there are also things 
 called "toys" these are things that you can do to utilize the ds's capabilitys. my favorite is 
 a parrot that repeats what you say into the mike back at u and it makes your voice sound very high. 
 and theres also a harmonica that you can blow into the mike and touch buttons to make diffrent 
 notes. great game and very good game over all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herojoe1000
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Finally a new Warioware game after the Gamecube one which was the same as the GBA one. Warioware 
 touched completely uses the touch screen. No buttons. I think they couldv'e used the control pad/buttons 
 to add a little more content and variety to the game. As with many WW games, there is not a huge 
 difference between minigames. A lot of them require you just to slash across the touch screen, 
 hitting the side, because you think you have to use more force than needed. Most games just need 
 a touch, but they fool you. In every microphone game but maybe one, you just have to blow. No real 
 challenge there. Every once in a while they will throw in a game where you have to be completly 
 quiet to try to throw you off. Getting 30 points or more on each stage earns you a toy. Most of 
 the toys are stupid gadgets that you can find in real life like a yo-yo or a clacker that provide 
 about three seconds of entertainment, and some are minigames. In conlusion, I just would've liked 
 to see more variety out of this game, and cooler unlockables. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamrig2000
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I have recently sold this game in dissapoitment. This mainly due to how dull the game is. I mean 
 most challenges involve a very simple method that gets dull fast. You use the ds's touch screen 
 andmicrophone until both of them are toatly exhausted. I have heard that previous wario wares have 
 fun so dont judge the series on this one game but quite simply avoid this game at all costs. The 
 good bit about the whole thing is the unlockables which sooun get boring. This is not a game i 
 would recomend. Dont buy this game go out and look for a different game or a different warioware 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshinator64
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware: Touched is the squeal to the orginal Wairo Ware. I say it get's better.
  
  In Wario Ware you play coutnless 3 second Micro games. Which are fun. If you want a story game... 
 don't get this. it really doesn't have a story like the Mario Parties. (they say they have a story 
 but who cares?) this game would happen to be the best time killer. if you have a lot of time one 
 your hands then you might want to try to beat the the minigame goals like beat this one 15 times 
 or 20 or so.
  
  if you have time to kill or just want a fun picker-uper then this is a must buy.
  
  I give 
 Wario Ware: Touched a 8.6 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariobros123
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Warioware touched is well ok.
  
  I expected a lot more out of this one. I remember begging to get my hands on this bad boy. 
  
 
  Warioware touched is all minigames. They are all related to the touchscreen or blowing into the 
 mic. There is no large puzzles just 3 second erasing ,or rubbing, and if your lucky blowing. 
 
  
  Lets start with the story line. You have wario and many other charecters dancing around and doing 
 well just plain undescribable nonsence. They will be doing anything from riding motorcycles to 
 dancing in kareoke contests. The game has basically no point. Lets just say that you did not buy 
 this one for the story.
  
  The minigames in this one are funner than ever at first but get old. I started out playing this 
 game and probably played for 18 minutes until I got bored. You rub your stylis or draw line for 
 the most part. Sometimes you use the mic. When you do use the mic the challenge might be to sweet 
 talk some one but all you do is blow into the mic. This is ok considering all the minigames involving 
 the mic are about blowing something but they could change it up a bit. The minigames at somepoint 
 might make you laugh but not usually. Basically you get four chances to beat a range of 15-30 minigames 
 which eventually speed up. Although I could care less about most of the minigames I do like the 
 boss ones.
  
  This game has a feature where you can pick a game and play it or you can make a toy room which 
 I have no idea how to do.
  
  I am not saying this game is hoorible and I regret buying it but it cold be better. It did at least 
 put the touch screen into play. Take this game into consideration before you buy it. Make sure 
 you like wacky storylines and small minigames. After all thats the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregarok
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Hello!
  
  WarioWare: Touched! is a very good title for NDS and I really like to play it.
  The gameplay is so good, and the game fully use NDS's Touchscreen. The only thing, that i wasn't 
 happy about it, was the microphone. You cannot say anything except blowing in it. 
  
  The characters and their games are very funny, exciting and sometimes (just sometimes) challanging. 
 The game itself is for one player, but you can unlock some aditional mini-games like ping-pong, 
 which is for two players.
  
  I was very suprised about the game and I do not regret, that i bought it. I went to Dominican Republic 
 few months ago (I'm from Europe) and I was playin WarioWare the whole way on the airplane.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Warioware Touched is an okay game. Due to it's creepy characters, bad graphics and weird music, 
 the game is kinda hard to recommend. On the up side, there are like 180 mini-games, or something 
 like that, to keep you busy. It also puts the touch screen, and microphone to good use. The game 
 will keep you busy for a while, but it begins to grow old and dull. The unlockables are okay, but 
 they too, begin to grow old. The only good thing SOME of the unlockables are good for is to relieve 
 stress. Overall, the game needs a lot of work. Less creepiness, more fun... niness... just fun, more 
 fun is what this game needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Unexpectedly, I got this game on Easter and boy was it a hoot!! Despite how short the game is, 
 I am surprised to see so many creative minigame ideas they came up with. It is flawless and takes 
 complete advantage of what a touch screen can really do. From petting a cat to cutting stuff up, 
 the overall display is awesome. This game is completely random and that is what I like about it.
 
  
  The music is very catchy and fun to listen to along with a combination of 2D and 3D graphics blended 
 together to make this experience worthwhile. The only disappointment with this game is that it 
 is too short. An extra addition is the toy room in which you can play with gimmicks and random 
 objects to your enjoyment. Who wouldn't like to jiggle the flan?
  
  This is a must buy for the DS and it is guaranteed to satisfy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onyxmethod123
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:59 pm PT
Review:  When I got my DS about... oh a year ago, actually, I had a great time playing this game. However, 
 once I was done with that game, I had no more interest in the platform except for playing my old 
 Doom cartridges and such. 
  
  The game is simple, clean and fun. If you are looking for something revolutionary, then go to something 
 like the PSP, it won't be here. There are many games, but the don't differ from level to level, 
 and the don't change, only get more "difficult". But they don't. There's just more to do. 
  
  The little world map has 3D effects. Whoopdeedoo. That's it for the 3D! Don't let the door 
 hit you on the way out. The stories are ridiculous as well. Oh man! Bad man eats sugar! He's so 
 evil and mean! The sound is really cartoony and the graphics are the same way.
  
  Pick this up if you want something to do for a weekend. That's about how long it will take you 
 to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ejacko
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 18, 2005 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Even this one is "proud" of the stylus, its not that great i was hoping for. 
  
  Its too short, 
  after one hour, the credit list was rolling. 
  I was playing a longer time 
 on the first one. 
  
  The "toys" is just a bunch of "tech demos" (boring and useless stuff) 
  Its only got one 2player 
 game (ping pong) 
  The first game had a bunch of great mini games, and "play forever" versions of the micro games, 
 witch is great. But not here, not a single one. 
  It (gba) even got a full version of DrMario (or DrWario as it was called) 
  
  But you should 
 try this, its good, but dont pay over 25 bucks for it. 
  Or better, just borrow it for a day or two. After then, you are bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aumala
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Wario ware touched is a puzzle game for the nintendo DS. Wario ware games consist of beating several 
 microgames in a short time of like 5 seconds each. You will have to be playing for a long time 
 to get all the unlockables. This is the main point of the game, get all the unlockables.
  This can be gotten by beating every character's story, beating all microgames (which in total are 
 180) . Each character has a different mode of playing its microgames, although all microgames are 
 played with the touch screen (except mike's which you play by blowing at the microphone) . The point 
 is that the difference between each character's microgames is the way you touch the screen, like 
 by spinning, dragging, rubbing drawing etc.
  
  This game doesn't feature excellent graphics. I think that puzzle games don't need good graphics. 
 This game has cartoonish graphics which makes some videos look humorously attractive.
  The sound it's just right it is quite good for this puzzle game and it coordinates to the game's 
 speed. What I mean by this that when you are playing a character's microgames and you are in like 
 level 40 the will become super fast, you'll only have like 3 seconds for each the music will get 
 really fast making the game more suspenseful.
  
  Wario Ware touched is a good puzzle game although you may get bored easily; unless you are a hardcore 
 gamer like me who wants to get all the unlockables, this is why the game is highly addictive. The 
 game is disliked only by people who are boring gamers, who only want to finish the story mode, 
 but if you really want a big challenge this is a game for you because it has a lot of unlockables 
 hard to get.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wario1939
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  I have beaten the first wario ware game so when I picked this one up I knew what to aspect.
  
  Game play:
  
  The story mode is short but it's still worth your money. Because you can 
 always go back and play certain mini games you liked or just replay story mode levels where the 
 mini games keep coming at you until you lose. There's also quite a bit of things to unlock. My 
 favorite unlockable was the parrot that imitates everything you say. Just say that your friend 
 is dumb to the parrot and put the ds in your friends ear. That's probably the best part of the 
 game right there (just kidding) . But yeah there's enough packed into the game to keep you busy for 
 while.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics look just like all the other wario ware games, cartoonish, and still looks good. Not 
 really much to complain about.
  
  Sound:
  
  Just like in the other wario ware games the sound effects are wacky and great. You don't touch 
 anything without hearing some cool sound effect.
  
  Value:
  
  Overall this game is definitely worth your 30$ or less. Even people who are new the wario ware 
 series with love this one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Console_Buster
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:42 am PT
Review:  The game's nice but it's gets boring quickly. it's graphics are cool. At first it's H I G H L Y 
 A D D I C T I V E !! but then after you finnish it's B O R I N G!!
  It's just right and good . and most of the people play it quickly masters it! 
  but after you 
 finish it you want to sell it ! It hasn't got a story and the storyline is too short M A N !! The 
 game is snappy so it's a waste of time in the last parts of the game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:08 am PT
Review:  WarioWare : Touched follows the same formula as it's predecessors except this time around it uses 
 a touch screen instead of the d-pad and various button pushes. It's simple yet addictive mini-game 
 formula works a treat and with the added bonus of a touch screen at it's disposal adds a whole 
 new aspect to the genre. I don't think there is any denying however that this game is somewhat 
 of a novelty for the DS, a system with so much potential showing off what it can do early on with 
 some mildy entertaining game mechanics.
  
  The appeal of this game starts to wear thin after a while unfortunately, after three or four hours 
 of play you will have pretty much unlocked everything there is to unlock and seen everything there 
 is to see. The only real replay value lies in showing your friends and family the sorts of thing's 
 your system can do while at the same time keeping them happy.
  
  This game sticks to what it does well but unfortunately this doesn't really offer anything in terms 
 of variety in gameplay, there are some really innovative games thrown in here that not only put 
 the touch screen to good use but also the microphone too. Thing's such as blowing up balloons and 
 frosting windows with your breath will leave you somewhat impressed by the systems potential but 
 such thing's are put to much better use in games such as Nintendogs. There are a few boss battles 
 thrown in here for good measure which again have so much potential but turn out to have no depth 
 whatsoever, the closest a minigame comes is a nifty little space invaders rip-off that see's you 
 dodging various obsticales and firing at various targets as you progress through measly 3 levels.
 
  
  There are some other modes here, aside from the main game which is broken up into different styles 
 of games which are represented by various characters. There is a mode which gives you the option 
 of replaying all your favourite mini-games over and over again until your hearts content, obtaining 
 a target score on each of the 180 microgames will unlock some pretty amusing extras in the third 
 and final mode known as the toy room. Here you can unlock novelty games like a parrot that repeats 
 what you say, a ping-pong game that isn't all that challenging and some strange touch screen yo-yo 
 game. Each will hold your interest the first couple of times and then they get kind of old, kind 
 of fast.
  
  This is a novelty game through and through and never tries to be anything different, unofortunately 
 this does nothing for replay value and would be an ideal gift for someone of the younger generation. 
 You should find yourself trading this in after a short while, if you don't want to build up a large 
 collection of DS games that is. The graphics and sound do their job quite well under the circumstances 
 but to be honest you are much likely to find a better all-round gaming experience of a similar 
 nature in WarioWare Inc and WarioWare Twisted for the GBA.
  
  Gameplay - Fun minigames that are pretty entertaining the first few times, some interesting ideas 
 implemented with the touch screen and the microphone.
  
  Graphics - Hold steady but the system isn't exactly pushed to it's limits here.
  
  Sound - 
 An upbeat soundtrack that does it's job well.
  
  Value - Unfortunately this is where the game falls on it's face, no real value whatsoever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LivleyLegend
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 4:52 pm PT
Review:  WTF were the creators of the game thinking when they made this game they must have boozed off or 
 something. This game is crazy random and yet fun. I played it once and i think this game is awesome 
 already! You can blow in the microphone or talk in it or whatever you please. I don't have a DS 
 but yu play it once and your like that was so screwed up yet I had a big blast playing it. LOL! 
 I reccomend this game for you if you are weird and you are random and you have no friends and you 
 are a loser who plays games that are stupid like this LOL!!!! Enjoy this game and have fun with 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: games5522
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 12:31 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing, I thought: "here we go again, same crazy Wario eating again" But 
 when I dug deeper into the game
  I found a much better game then the first Warioware.
  
  The game makes extensive use of the stylus and microphone, with one set of levels dedicated to 
 the microphone alone. My favourite mini-game is the one where it shows you a 3d model of one of 
 Nintendo's various handhelds and you have to rotate it to push a certain button. There's also the 
 mini-game where you have to set up a gamecube. It also has some classic mini-games back such as 
 the nosepicking game but you have to push the button on the touchscreen to pick the nose.
  
  The new prizes that you can unlock are a bit silly. You can unlock stuff like a pile of mustard 
 (or is it custard?) and a harmonica.
  The harmonica is the only thing in the game that uses the buttons on the DS, along with pong ping 
 (a ripoff of ping pong) .
  
  I have also noticed some other problems. You wil notice that it only has 180 mini-games, as opposed 
 to the 200 games in the original.
  
  The game also has a host of new characters, such as mike the robot.
  
  This game is good for 
 the insane person who likes to find nose nuggets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scared_link
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  You buy the game, thinking its an okay game. You get out youre DS pen, because, well you have 
 to! Then it shows a story. Of how Wario gets a DS and learns how to play. Then he eats some garlic 
 and he gets a broken tooth. He then goes into the dentist and gets a check up. Then he runs off 
 and has to do mini games. The first time ever were you have to use youre DS pen and use it. Pop 
 the balloons, Pour the ketchup etc. Then you have to fight a boss. Then you unlock characters together 
 with youre pen you complete the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martindprotts
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2005 8:11 am PT
Review:  Look, you may not know it, but this takes advantage of the DS's innovative ideas, so it's awesome. 
 If you want to give something a bad value score make sure it's not a Wario Ware game. Wario Ware 
 is crazy, and that's good.
  
  If you underappreciate a game I like again, I may desubscribe for a long time. Touched is that 
 good. Before you say I've got a pirate copy, don't. Different people have different opinions, and 
 my opinion is that everyone should have this hit.
  
  This is underappreciated, and I haven't overrated it. This isn't exactly trash, despite repetitive 
 mini-games and the lack of wireless multiplayer. It's a must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EleMinoP26
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:10 am PT
Review:  The original Wario Ware: Mega Microgames was excellent on GBA, and only gets better on Nintendo 
 DS. I especially like this version because it uses the touch screen to make the games even better 
 than the just using the A button. This game is also the only one of its kind with quick mini-games, 
 and is an awesone sequel to the Wario Ware series. In my opinion, this tops the Wario Ware: Mega 
 Party Games for Game Cube. With all of the different games, this game will never get boring. One 
 of the putdowns on this game is that for first time players, the games do get confusing at times, 
 especially with the games using the touch screen, which is most. But generally the game is excellent. 
 I recommend this game to those who enjoy quick-reflex type games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:02 am PT
Review:  this game is highly addictve and lots of fun. this game is hundreds of little silly mini games 
 that are 5 seconds long and are conected to each other. like for example, at once u'll be picking 
 a dogs nose with the touch screen, and in the next five seconds you will be choping apples with 
 the touch screen. this game is strictly game play with the touch screen and the mic, which is good 
 because thats ds special feature and mopst games dont use the touch screen at all. if for some 
 strannge reason you have a ds and not a psp, one im sorry , and two, pick up this game now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljmjag
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 9:20 am PT
Review:  Sure this game is easy. If you are used to playing games like Advance Wars DS or Catlevania, this 
 game might bore you to tears. However, if you are in the mood to show off what the DS can do and 
 challenge your freinds to beat your level, then this a great game for you. My kids love this game, 
 since you need about a 7 year olds intelligence to grasp the simple concepts - and they love having 
 a zillion mini-games at their disposal. 
  
  When you are in the mood for something mindless and fun, then this is the one for you. I bought 
 mine used, which is what I would recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lild1425
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 1, 2005 3:44 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  Gameplay is pretty basic. There are about 180 microgames that you can play that basically last 
 only seconds. However, this quick thinking and these microgames, are odd, but it makes the game 
 more fun and unique. There are not many games were you can slice vegetables in mid air or tickle 
 men to force them to drop the pole in their mouth. This game's difficulty is just right, it provides 
 a challenge without being too hardand with practice it becomes easy. The game overall is basic, 
 but its fun. 
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics overall are pretty good with its own Wario Ware-esque style that is not too cartoony. 
 However, it could have been beefed up a little bit, for the letters during the level changes seem 
 to be choppy.
  
  Sound: 
  Here again, it has the Wario Ware-esque music thats not exactly the greatest, but gets rather annoying. 
 Some themes can be really catchy, but overall the music could have been better in the microgames.
 
  
  Value:
  While somewhat short, Wario Ware utilates the touch screen the best so far. The game is definitely 
 addicting, but lasts for a short while. You will definitely pick it up again though and replay 
 through it because it becomes just as fun as the first time.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  Wario Ware is definitely the most underrated DS game I have seen thus far. It offers something 
 different and innovative, which the DS promised us from the beginning. A fun and unique game like 
 this is the reason to get a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videodame07
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 30, 2005 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I love, absolutley love the randomness of this game. It's so much fun and keeps you playing and 
 playing and playing. All of the unlockables are so much fun, they as well are very random. However, 
 as much as I loved the game, there are some downsides. Such as the fact I've almost broken my screen 
 many times. Plus, this was my first DS game so i didn't know you didn't need to slam on the screens. 
 Also, I beat the main part of this game in one sitting. Just like I said, it keeps you playing 
 and playing and playing to the point where you've beaten the main part and then you just don't 
 really know what else to do. Altogher though I really enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Links24
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 25, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  This Wario Ware game is really weird in many ways like the characters! The games are pointless 
 but very fun and addictive! I played intill my battery died and I didn't stop intill i was forced 
 to!!!! There are strang unlockables that you would unlock in a day cause you would be playing this 
 game so much! This game also makes good use of the touch screen cause mostly every minigame uses 
 it! The minigames are popping balloons, moving sheep, picking a guys nose and much MORE!!!! If you 
 like games that you can play for days without stopping and you have a DS this is a MUST BUY!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darksyde14
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  Graphics were good for it's system, Funny ideas for minigames (good easter eggs within the minigames) . 
 The only flaw is that the audio was so-so. Since I have to have at least 100 words in this review, 
 I'm just going to say random nonsense. fh nsldfk dfj f g di dld dfslgknjsd df, kfjkrdflgv dkf. dfsn 
 vdsdg fr gsdzfg er rge ger rgmrge erg g erg 5t ghr fhg rty5t4ewwq g g g g g g g tg g g g g g g 
 g g g g g g gh g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g 
 g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g 
 g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zekiu_1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:10 am PT
Review:  Everyones favorite characters are back in WarioWare: Touched!
  --
  The mini-games are SERIOUSLY amusing, so are the little 'bonuses' after you complete a character's 
 game. All stylus and no other buttons. great game for everyone. Although the sound needs some work, 
 the overall game is interesting. With its easy gameplay style and fast learning of the controls, 
 this would be a good game to rent, and if you seem to like it, buy it for anyone who loves mini 
 games. Good stocking stuffer for the average gamer who likes Mario and all their games, but most 
 of all, the amusing style of the whole plot. 
  
  -Zekiu ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YearoftheSnake5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  The Wario Ware series come to the DS in Wario Ware Touched. The game uses all the DS's unique features 
 to it's advantage, and keeps anything from getting old. The graphics may be 2D, but most everything 
 looks great regardless. There are only a few places that I spotted anything that was a bit off.
 
  The gamplay is simple for anyone. The instructions are given before each set of minigames to give 
 you an idea of what is to come. You'll be rubbing, pecking, and blowing your way through tons of 
 timed minigames, all of which have something different to do. When you beat a character's set of 
 minigames, you'll recieve a bonus item that you can play with later. The bonus items will sometimes 
 have their own subminigame, and others will just be a little toy to mess around with.
  The sound is nicely done, and hilarious and some parts. Each track in the game matches the character, 
 and is perfectly clear. Character voices sound good, and are hilarious to listen to in some places.
 
  There's plenty of replay value to beheld in this game. The game is over much too quickly, but 
 you'll go back from time to time to play the minigames.
  Overall, Wario Ware Touched makes best use of the DS features while keeping everything from getting 
 too repeditive. Pick this one up if you are a fan of the Wario Ware series or if you're looking 
 for something to entertain you once the main experience is over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RESISTEE926
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Put extra milk in your glass 'cause it'll be spurting out out of your nose every 3 minutes. In 
 what other game can you go spelunking in someone's nose, slice flying food produce, use a cupid 
 statue to pee out a fire, blow little men off a cliff, use a remote controled car to escape a giant 
 rampaging clown, defuse a bomb, trip an ancient legless kung-fu master, have a grandma tell you 
 to 'mind your manatee', knock an egg off a spinning cogwheel, draw a mustache, blow into a microphone 
 to save a two inch old man in a nightgown from falling into someones mouth, find pig in an apple, 
 feed doughnuts to a gopher, save Earth from being blown up by a meteorite, unroll toilet paper 
 as fast as you can, write caligraphy, find Santa in a ball of yarn, launch a rubber ball into outerspace 
 onto a giant olive, or suck a frog into a blackhole? When you can spend hours just playing on the 
 title screen, you know it has to be good, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrEdgeworth
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Warioware Touched! was definitely one of the DS' best launch titles. It has comedy, albeit very, 
 very surreal comedy and fast paced action. The mini-games are very random and quite funny, although 
 if you play through a certain mode a few times you tend to play the same games too much, but this 
 isn't necessarily a bad thing, the fast paced action REQUIRES familiarity with the mini-games. 
 When you first play, you find yourself floundering simply because you don't understand what to 
 do quickly enough, in some of the minigames.
  The game also puts all the games of a certain type together (eg. Mic games, rubbing games, poking 
 games etc) if they just fitted them by genre like in WarioWare Inc. on the GBA there'd be much 
 more variety.
  Another flaw in the game is the fact it depends on the touch screen, the game would be much better 
 if it mixed D-Pad and Button games with touch screen games.
  Overall, the game is an addictive, fast paced hubbub of humourous minigames, but it is a little 
 too short and the sections have little variety within them and depends too much on touch rather 
 than the D-Pad and Buttons. Nevertheless, the game is fun to pick up and play for 15 minutes or 
 so long after you've finished playing through all the modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoodyFlame
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 1:12 am PT
Review:  When you start off, you have to pick wario and you immediately begin playing (unless you wanna 
 watch the boring video in the begininng) , you do his game type, poking at things with the touch 
 screen, and as soon as you win (no more than 5 mins) you unlock another 2 characters fro which 
 u get more games of diff type... and so forth... after you win the game within atmost 5 hours, you 
 get to replay the same games in diff mixes, such as the megamix and gnarly mix and such, which 
 are just fater slower higher leverl or one life only version of the micro-games, put together to 
 make more replay value. Also, with each character win you unlock toys, which are little trinkets 
 which are fun to refer to after you've beat the game.
  Overall, this game has great replay value and lush and clourful graphics and is an intersting addition 
 to the Warioware Series, but is it a solid title for DS?
  If you like warioware, then i guess so, if not, dont think about this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R-Dogg
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 15, 2005 5:43 pm PT
Review:  this game is nothing but a whole bunch of mini games compiled into 1. it takes awhile to beat because 
 of the many things u earn... get this u actually earn mini games from mini games (now thats small) ... 
 any way this isn't one of those crappy new mario games, this one actually has some stile to it. 
 get high scores to unlock more mini games and finally beat all mini games to unlock more toys in 
 ur toy room (where u keep ur mini mini games) . after u beet it u dont want to play it again because 
 there is only 1 profile and if u delete it ur screwed. this game is fun if ur looking for full 
 use of the touch screen and u will have much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cool_Grant
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 13, 2005 3:35 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare has finally made it to the DS and it is good. Very good. All of the minigames are fun, 
 and you want to play them a lot. But not for too long...
  There isn't really any graphics in this game, but for what it has is good.
  The sound is exactly 
 what you want. Alot of explosions, pops, splashes, and evrything else.
  What makes this very interesting is that it uses the microphone. You can blow to make things move 
 and much more! Also once you are done, you get bonus items which only half are worth looking at, 
 but this is still a worthy game that you should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcook007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2005 9:23 am PT
Review:  If you like a good action game or sporting game this one isnt for you. This game is WEIRD. You 
 play a level and it randomly says a world which will be what you have to do. At first it is a brilliant 
 game and funny but after a while the same games and levels come on and it does get a tad boring.
 
  This game is not a must buy although it is a good game, not the best but still good. could have 
 lots of fun with this if you have friends to. Hope this review was helpful please send a message 
 on this review. pcook007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destiny_blade
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 4, 2005 9:51 am PT
Review:  there are plenty better ds games out there project rub (feel the magic) for instance was far better 
 i thought the whole gameplay of wario ware was just plain tacky it looked like a 30-minute job 
 the length of the game was dissapointing i mean this was the first ds game i played and boy did 
 i get off on the wrong foot i completed in in like a couple of days and was very dissapointed but 
 there are a few up sides to wario ware like the music is pretty decent if you like retro tunes 
 and the sheer amount of minigames but personly i prefered the gba version of wario ware i found 
 it brilliant every new minigame that poped up i was laughing my head off at unlike the ds version 
 where i was just bored! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazuki87
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 1, 2005 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Warioware Touched is a great diversion but not much of a game. The problem is that it lacks substance 
 and it has a pseudo-story that is so stupid and irrelevant that having to sit through it pissed 
 me off. The minigames are good of course but they made them all based purely on the stylus and 
 touch screen which made them repetitive. When I got to the part involving the microphone I was 
 excited but I found out that all the games involved just blowing on the mic untill you've won. 
 Some more varirty would have been appreciated, they could have integrated elements from the first 
 game or even maybe from Twisted to make the ultimate game. But instead they concentrated on one 
 aspect of the system and it hurts the game. If you play your DS a lot and need something new (and 
 have played everything else) then go ahead and get this as long as its cheap. Otherwise I'd advise 
 against it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greyhound222
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 1, 2005 8:00 am PT
Review:  While it has a short span of about 5 hours, it has the greatest replay value ever. The games are 
 slightly frustrating at first, but after a while it makes you feel like a champion. The themed mini-games 
 are humourous, and then again, can make you tear your hair out. It's sort of a"Make your own difficulty" 
 game, with easy and hard bosses to challenge you. You're also rewarded when you beat a specific challenge, you 
 can get fun "easter eggs". These range from yo-yos, to talking parrots. You can't really "finish" 
 it, because it's not meant to be played once through. It's only flaw is that it gets repetitive quickly 
 and if you master the game, there's no real challenges. This is an addictive and fun game well worth 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetFighter01
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 23, 2005 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I was dissapointed with this one. It was way to short and didn't have that
  much replay value. It would have been cool if it wasn't all touch screen action. I enjoyed the 
 First Wario Ware a lot more. But I have to say that ping pong 2p unlockable game is pretty unique 
 and cool. Since the DS didn't have that much good games from the start, I think Nintendo rushed 
 this game. Some mini games use the mic, which is cool I guess. Not if your playing in public though. 
 Hopefully Nintendo can make the next game a lot better then this one. Try renting or asking a friend 
 to let you borrow this one.
  Now that theres plenty of good DS games now you should try avoided this 
  game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspowner5789
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is the most addicting games I have ever played in my life! It fully expresses the power 
 of how much fun the ds can be. You don't go by one minigame without moving your hand, even the 
 start screen is fun, becuase they let you move all these things around. The only bad thing about 
 the game is that once you have played all the minigames, they become repetetive and easily beaten. 
 Even though that happens, it is still a great game to play when you have nothing to do and you 
 are striving to beat that last high score. There are different sections of minigames, each using 
 the nintendo ds differently. There are poking ones, scratching ones, sliding ones, rubbing ones (my 
 fav) , mixes, and there is also one where you talking or blow into the microphone (you may get a 
 little dizzy though after a while) . I also like the music, it is fun to "tap" the touch pen to. 
 So if you have a ds........ DEFINITLY get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artistml
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 16, 2005 10:05 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY or LAMEPLAY: ITS well what do you know, more of the same. exept this time its even more 
 boring because all you do litarally is rub, tap and blow. cant you think of other things to do 
 using these words, wait......... oh forget it. once you figure out how repetitive it is its definetly 
 lameplay.
  
  GRAPHICS or LAPHICS: well its what youd expect from the sequel, but it is what you wanted? little 
 3d animations here and there dont help the fact that its just more of the same, which can be good 
 but it definetly lowers its replay value. Yet im feelin generous all still call them graphics.
 
  
  SOUND or POUND: if your head doesnt explode within a week do yourself a favor and get a hammer 
 and smash your brains on the sidewalk. then have someone lick your splattered brains everywhere 
 because some people like that kind of stuff. the sound fits the game but it doesnt change the fact 
 that it gets very annoying, and repetative ( exept that sweet juggling mini game song) . anoying 
 and repetative meens less replay value. I guess it has sound enough to keep you satisfied untill 
 you get a life, or at least a cd, or a singing fish or somethin.
  
  VAL "U" or SELL "U": Good for a nintendo collector but no real value once you beet the game. and 
 the secrets are crap compared to the previous game. the try a little to hard to incorperate the 
 ds functions and it seems a bit forced. especially in the secrets (yes even the talking bird gets 
 old, after you swear a few times and it repeats you) ok that never gets old, but you get the picture. 
 If I wasnt a DS game collector i would definetly say eventually its a SELL "U" and by the original.
 
  
  TILT or POOP ON YOUR FRIENDS LAWN THEN PEE ON THIER DOOR: sorry wario fans in this case he should 
 have stuck to his platformer roots. will we ever see another great wario platformer..... anyway 
 your better of playing the original or just go and poop on your friends lawn then pee on it. Just 
 dont get cought.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conkers128
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2005 4:39 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware: Touched is one of those games that gets you hooked. The graphics on this game are..... unique 
 in that they use real life images, cartoon drawings, and some 3-D designs. The sound uses quirky 
 little noises and music, so there really isn't much in the sound department. The gameplay consists 
 of mini games in which all use the touch screen or the DS mic. This adds up to a unique gameplay 
 experience from blowing to slicing with the stylus. It gets addicting fast and the mini-games speed 
 up as your score gets higher, which means you're bound to fail sometime at blazing speeds. You 
 can take on the confusing and strange story to unlock little toys and things and play around. This 
 game is so addicting it's worth a purchase and it's one of the DS's best games around. Pick it 
 up and get ready to get hooked! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2005 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Wario Ware Touched plays very similarly to Wario Ware Inc, which was released for the 
 GBA a couple of years ago. The big difference is that Touched uses the DS's features, like the 
 touch screen and microphone. The minigames are pretty creative, and each one is different enough 
 from the last to keep you excited, although some of the minigames seem exactly the same but with 
 a different picture. However, they've done a good job in providing 180 new minigames, and they've 
 even introduced some new characters into the Wario Ware universe.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Wario Ware Touched look pretty similar to the GBA game's graphics. Although 
 the graphics are pretty good and fit the mood of the game well, they could have been done on the 
 GBA, meaning they're not really taking full advantage of the DS's graphical capabilities.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is good. The music for each of the characters is good and matches 
 each character well. Some of the characters have excellent soundtracks as well. The sound effects 
 are also really nicely done. The sound effects are usually what make the Wario Ware games so unique, 
 with all of these wacky/kooky noises, and Touched is no exception.
  
  Value: Alot of people have been complaining about this game's length, but I actually found it to 
 be quite a lengthy experience. Sure, you could blow through the main story mode in about 2 hours, 
 but the experience doesn't stop there. You also have to unlock all 180 minigames, then beat all 
 180 minigames individually by acquiring a set score in each one. Plus you have to get 30 on each 
 of the characters. For accomplishing alot of these things, you are rewarded with toys. There are 
 34 toys to unlock in the game, and while some of them may seem pretty useless, such as poking a 
 piece of jelly and watching it jiggle (warning: extremely addictive!) , others are actually really 
 neat, such as a record player where you can listen to songs, and if you spin it fast enough you 
 can hear a hidden subliminal message in Ashley's song!
  
  After unlocking everything and playing with all of the toys, the game should last you about 20-25 
 hours, but you can always go back to try improving your scores in the various microgames. This 
 game will keep you busy for a while.
  
  Tilt: Overall, Wario Ware Touched is a fine addition to the DS's expanding library of games. Although 
 there are certainly better games available for the DS, I still strongly recommend this wacky game! 
 It's funny, it's crazy, and it's got plenty of toys to mess around with. Heck, it's even got a 
 parrot that repeats back what you say into the microphone, only it sounds like a parrot (profanities! 
 swears! curses!) . That parrot alone makes this game worth buying! If you're looking for a game 
 that'll last you a long time, or if you just want a game that'll give you some good laughs, Wario 
 Ware Touched is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homegirl2180
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 21, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  In the latest addition to the Wario Ware series, Wario steals a couple of handhelds and drops them 
 in the sewer and an old man comes out and due to Wario's greediness, he ends up snatching a DS. 
 That alone can tell you that there's basically no story whatsoever.
  
  Touched! uses the DS's features pretty well. It has what you would expect of a DS game trying to 
 focus on the touch screen and slightly on the microphone. The microgames offer unique gameplay, 
 as well as the toys (which I'll get into later) . There's not much to say as for gameplay on a Wario 
 Ware game; it's just the usual wacky unique stuff.
  
  Nearly every part of the game looks 2D and each one illustration being done decently. The graphics 
 are good, as well as the character models. Every part of the game looks like it was done with care, 
 but there are a few graphical nitpicks that also take off from it.
  
  The music in the game is actually good. The songs that was played during the games were not annoying 
 and some might even have you singing them after playing the game enough. Overall, the musical score 
 is fitting, and enjoyable. It's nothing that you'll want to download and put on a cd for however.
 
  
  The game is pretty short in all honesty. The toys and the high scores (to get a final toy) are 
 what make the gamer want to keep coming back, for a short while, but is nothing really very substantial. 
 Completing certain things in the game or getting a certain score for a character will reward you 
 with a toy. The toys are then available to fiddle around with, but I've only found a a few that 
 actually keep me rentertained for more than five minutes, or that I go back to.
  
  Overall I found the game to be very fun, as are pretty much all Wario Ware games, but it doesn't 
 really have any length or depth. Borrow it from a friend, or rent it, but unless you're a die-hard 
 fan of the series, I wouldn't recommend a purchase. Every DS owner should try it, but I can only 
 imagine a scarce few who should actually buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vissuluth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 11, 2005 3:15 pm PT
Review:  B, ens trobem davant del segon joc que jugo del wari ware, la veritat s que no varia quasi gens 
 amb el de GBA, per ara s fan tots els jocs amb el punter o bufant.
  Si no hagus jugat a laltre segurament mho hagus passat pipa, per al fer-me laltre he trobat 
 que era el mateix, i encara lhe trobat ms fcil, ja que mha costat 1 setmana acabar-mel. 
 
  Al principi mha fet grcia lo del punter, potser s el millor per aprofitar aquesta gran qualitat 
 que t la DS, per el joc s igual que el de GBA, i en seguida es passa lemoci inicial.
  Els nens que no han jugat a laltre segur que sho passen pipa.
  Tcnicament igual que laltre, 
 per tant no han aprofitat les possibilitats de la mquina, encara qe les 2 pantalles si les aprofiten 
 quasi sempre.
  No tinc gaire ms a dir, noms que mhe encaparrat a completar-ho tot fins hi tot aconseguir la 
 flor en tots els minijocs, per poder aconseguir els jocs de bonus que et van donant, aix dons 
 lhe fet al 100%, no noms la trama principal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bnfbnggbfg1
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2005 5:05 am PT
Review:  One day, I went down to EBgames. "I would like WarioWare touched please" I said. "OMGWTF! Here 
 you go!" said the person behind the counter. I grabbed it and ran, "Hey, you gotta pay for that!" 
 Said the person behind the counter. When I got home and put it in my DS, I found it interesting. 
 This was basically the only DS game I know of to use the touch-o-screen. And use it well it did.
 
  
  Graphics. Cartoony yet interesting.
  
  Gameplay. Odd yet fun.
  
  Funness. Very.
  
  Go get it, ho.
  
  Aparently, my review must be at least 100 characters yet I have nothing 
 else to say about the game so I'm going to see if this is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superduperyoshi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 10, 2005 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is the third in the WarioWare series, along with WarioWare, Inc: Mega Microgames, WW 
 Mega Party Games, and WarioWare Twisted. It makes many uses of the DSs many unique features such 
 as the touch screen and microphone. But, it relies too much on the touch screen, they should have 
 added some levels using the original WarioWare gameplay. But, the game is called touched. My only 
 other complaint is that while over 180 microgames seems like a lot, youll get to play them all 
 in a day or two. But there is good, the game is fun and addictive, and will intrigue people who 
 have never tried WarioWare or a DS. My favorite set of games is 9 and 18-volts games, they are 
 so old school, I love it. In conclusion, if you have a DS, its a must have title.
  
  8.4 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 9, 2005 8:06 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare Inc. for the Game Boy Advance, although I have never played it (My Game Boy Advance sat 
 there neglected for four years) , is considered one of the greatest handheld games ever made, and 
 is considered a video game incarnation of crack. It's addictive, it's original, and Shigeru Miyamoto 
 is jealous it wasn't his idea. The concept really does seem very intriguing, and it looks like 
 the original did a lot for the Game Boy Advance in making a solid, original, and innovative portable 
 game that can be enjoyed by practically anyone. WarioWare: Touched!, though, seems to be lacking 
 in variety of minigames, because really, all you're doing is scratching your screen uncontrollably 
 on a screen that looks like it's portraying minigames. Anyone who has played this game can notice 
 this. Up, down, side to side, scribble furiously, "w00t! I won!" That's about all WarioWare: Touched! 
 is aside from blowing into the microphone uncontrollably as well. The minigames are short, and 
 so are the assortments of minigames.
  
  There are less minigames in this game than there were in the original WarioWare, and it shows. 
 WarioWare can be beaten in about an hour, and after that, all you can do is go back to all the 
 minigames and beat a certain score. I tried doing this, since often I really enjoy getting %100 
 on a game, but I didn't find enough motivation or fun involved in doing these minigames over and 
 over and over and over and over until you've gotten high score on all of them. There is no multiplayer 
 to up the replay value, and the collectibles are mostly lame aside from a virtual parrot who repeats 
 whatever you say into the microphone in a chipmunk voice.
  
  So, in conclusion, WarioWare really won't have much to offer you in terms of replay value or length. 
 Some of the minigames are pretty neat and creative, yeah, but none of this lasts, and I ultimately 
 didn't enjoy this game as much as I wanted to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kernnee
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2005 11:52 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware Touched
  
  The Wario Ware series started off with Wario Ware Inc., a bunch of crazy mini-games that were about 
 5 seconds long and often slightly confusing, but not in a bad way. It was so successful that it 
 had another game made in its name, this time on the GameCube. It wasnt praised quite as much as 
 the original, but made a good game all the same. Now, Wario Ware comes to the Nintendo DS, and 
 it is out to use all the DS innovative features.
  
  As you probably guessed by the title, Wario Wares main focus is on the touch screen, and it uses 
 it very well. Different mirco games get you to do different things, like rub the screen with the 
 stylus and reveal the coin before the time limit runs out or guide the match to light candles on 
 a birthday cake. As you go on, you unlock new characters with their own style of micrio-game. Spinning, 
 rubbing, poking and even blowng ( blowing into the mic ) features. Its usually a bit mad and during 
 the blowing sections my effort had to be so big, that I felt light headed because I had blown into 
 the mic so much. The game also has turned classic Nintendo games into five second micro-games. 
 The Legend Of Zelda, Mario Bros. And others are turned into quickies but it works well. There are 
 also toys to be played with that you unlock after completing the micro-games of each character. 
 Colouring is even an option! There are little bits of humour in the game as well, like when you 
 rub down on the touch screen to take the toilet roll off the roller, once its all gone a little 
 message comes up to say:  Save the tress 
  
  The graphics are really nice and the cut scenes are done very well using the top screen and touch 
 screen. All of the game is nice and cartoony and some micro-games are in 3-D. The graphics are 
 only a small part of the game but never displease and are very pleasant.
  
  The problem, and it is the only one, is the game is very short it is. I completed the game in 3 
 hours, which isnt a very long time at all. Although I love coming back to play some very fun micro-games 
 now and again. This game is nice when youre on a bus and doesnt take itself too seriously. If 
 Kirby isnt youre bag and you want a game that uses the touch screen a lot, get this, as it is 
 defiantly one of the best games for the DS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeugenio
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 29, 2005 6:32 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware: Touched! is the first Wario Ware game on the DS and is very highly addicting. All of 
 you gamers who want a challenging game, don't get this game! But if you like highly fun, addictive 
 games, this is a must-buy. 
  
  This game is all about playing very short mini-games to set a record of playing consecutive games. 
 You use the touch-screen and the microphone on your DS to play these games. Unfortunately, the 
 mini-games are very short, but surprisingly addicting. Some of the downs of this game is that the 
 mini-games are short like I said before, it gets boring after a while, and it's not really challenging 
 for hardcore gamers. You can learn how to play this game in a snap, even little kids will learn 
 fast. The graphics of the game are average, music "ditto", and everything else is well............. 
 "ditto"! 
  
  Wario Ware: Touched! is a pretty fun, addictive that's not for everyone but for the fun, casual 
 gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: equuleus102
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 29, 2005 5:25 am PT
Review:  I bought "WarioWare: Touched" in hopes that it would be as fun as "WarioWare Inc.: Mega MicroGame$"... I 
 was correct in some respects, but I was left slightly disappointed without multiplayer. I believe 
 this game had great potential to be the great party game that "WarioWare Inc.: Mega MicroGame$" 
 was on the Gamecube.
  
  I must say that I really enjoyed this game while it lasted, although it will only take you around 
 2 hours to unlock everything. The "micro-games" are really fun and fresh in this version.. they 
 make you do a variety of things to complete the games such as rubbing, blowing, drawing, dragging.
 
  
  The music is fantastic in this game, and so are the sound effects. I really enjoy "Ashley's Song," 
 it's very catchy! The sound bytes are funny and unique in this game.
  
  Once you are finished the micro-games, you win "toys", there are 34 to be exact.. some are really 
 pointless, and some are really fun (e. g. Virtual Harmonica, Piano, Ping-Pong game) .
  
  I'd recommend this game to any fans of WarioWare, as long as multiplayer isn't a big priority.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanduvall
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 23, 2005 5:31 am PT
Review:  This a very interesting game that could only be done on a DS. The main plot of the game is wario 
 gets a ds by lying. Then he figure out how u touch the ds, so he tricks the town into making games 
 for the DS. Then u begin the game where u poke, prod, push, cut, slide, and blow. Yes i said blow, 
 u blow into the microphone for some of the microgames.
  There are supposedly 180 games and many souvenirs, but u can still unlock pretty much everything 
 in about 8 hours of play. If i had to choose between this or twisted i would go with twisted.
 
  
  Gameplay- 9 - some of the craziest and most fun minigames ive evr played. it also goes so friggin 
 fast
  
  Graphics - 7 - pretty basic, some can be worse than gba, but some mingames are full 3-D
  
  
 Sound- 8 - fast high paced tunes and even some with real lyrics!
  
  Value- 7 - excellent replay value, but still its way too short
  
  Tilt - 8 - i friggin love 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 22, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  For many people, picking up a copy of WarioWare Touched! when getting their DS was a natural thing 
 to do. They fell in love with the simplicity and addictive quality on the store's sample DS and 
 had to have it for themselves. The entire game is fun, though over quickly, and likely intentionally 
 gets you thinking about all the great ways future games may take advantage of DS technology.
  The story, such as it is, revolves around Wario figuring out a way to get people to generate new 
 games for him to make sweet, sweet money off of. Along the way you get introduced to different 
 people, each of whom controls a different style of game: from the poking games of Wario (pop the 
 balloons!) , Ashley's dragging games (cage the animals!) , to Mike's microphone games (blow a ship 
 across a harbor) , there's 9 distinct styles of gameplay, plus several that combine some or all 
 of the games in MegaMixes. A good approach the designers took is unlocking things one at a time, 
 so you don't move on to scribbling or spinning until you've mastered simpler chores like poking 
 or slicing motions. For old-school aficionados, the best level is one where every game is based 
 on old Nintendo classics: vs. Hogan's Alley, Super Mario Bros., even their handheld liquid crystal 
 games.
  Each game lasts no more than about 5 seconds, some significantly less than that. While given a 
 goal, you don't often get instructions: you're left on your own to figure out how to accomplish 
 the goal. Every so often the games speeds up and boss levels come out at set increments, with an 
 extra life as a reward. The best parts are how intuitive and accessible the games are, regardless 
 of age. After the first few tries, all the goals become pretty obvious, even to microgames you've 
 not done before, and even if you never play videogames. I showed this system to my mother and some 
 of her friends, all 55-60ish in age; they all stumbled at first, but were highly successful on 
 their second go around, and all enjoyed it immensely. This is a game the whole family can enjoy.
 
  The gameplay is very simply use the stylus, with occasional microphone use, and do what you need 
 to. Graphically the game is nothing spectacular, but doesn't really need to be. Many games use 
 a photographic background instead of drawn graphics. The sound is a tad better: some of the songs, 
 especially on Ashley's level, have that "stick-in-your-brain" quality, and the old Nintendo game 
 sounds are 100% perfect. You will run through the game pretty quickly, though the quest to unlock 
 optional rewards ranging from the fun (a hammer toss game) , the useful (a kitchen timer) , to the 
 utterly bizarre (a spirometer?) keep you going a bit longer. Still, you should be able to get everything 
 inside of 15 hours. All in all, this is just a fun game, playable for hours on end, yet also perfect 
 for when time is short and you just want to relax for 15 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2005 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Warioware is the fastest paced collection of mini games out there, and while the DS seems to be 
 latent with mini games & games with mini games, this game stands out as the best of all of them.
 
  
  Gameplay- 9 - All the different game types focus on some kind of stylus use... slicing, poking, 
 dragging, even using the microphone. And while they may all sound the same, they actually all provide 
 a unique experience that are truely fun. TThe only ones I didn't really like were the microphone 
 games, I felt like I was trying to eat my DS using that built in microphone.
  
  Graphics- 6 - The game uses basic, 2D graphics, with the thrown in 3Desque mini game here & there. 
 Nothing that's going to blow your mind
  
  Sound- 8 - All the sounds are fun, wacky, and suit the mood (though the Ashley theme gets to me 
 in an annoying way
  
  Value- 8 - There is a LOT to unlock, and when you do, you have about 200 or so mini games scores 
 to set & beat. The value would be a little higher, if even all those games weren't able to be run 
 through so fast, if you play it a lot in a short time
  
  Tilt- 9 - I really enjoy this game
  
  Overal, Warioware isnt going to be the game that defines 
 the DS, but for fans of the series, or anyone that likes these style of games, its a definate buy 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruntyking117
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 9, 2005 4:52 am PT
Review:  For WarioWare, I had to get my ADD on, the games was fast, great, funny and somewhat annoying. 
 I was anticipating 'WarioWare Touched!' For a while. When I got it, I saw that it retained its 
 tounge in cheek humor-But the gameplay was vastly repetitive.
  
  Poke bubbles...
  
  Pop bubble rap..
  
  Touch bugs...
  Boring.
  
  
  I'm really unimpressed, I thought it 
 was gonna be fun. It was actually, but there was'nt enough of it. I unlocked roughly half my 'toys' 
 in a day. And get this-I had to play the same game over to get extras. Example-Turn the the wheel 
 for THIRTY rounds. My hand cramped up and I played Super Mario 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DefaultGen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 7, 2005 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I finally got around to reviewing the supposed best DS game (Besides Mario) , and I agree 
 that it is probably my favorite DS game at the moment. Warioware Touched has nothing to offer thats 
 really better than the GBA versions besides touch screen games and a bunch of cool 'toys' so this 
 version was a bit disappointing. It has the same ol' Warioware gameplay but using the touch screen 
 just isn't as fun.
  
  - - - - - Gameplay 8/10 - - - - -
  
  
  Warioware has good gameplay, but it can get very boring and very repetitive. Like usual, the game 
 consists mainly of games in rapid sucession that are 5 seconds each, but this is very slow paced! 
 This may come as a surprise to Warioware fans but Touched feels... slow! The lengthy unskippable 
 cut-scenes the first time you play don't help much. Warioware: MM had a very fast paced feel. This 
 time they tried to include a lame story and it starts off a bit slower than a warioware game should.
 
  
  Using the touch screen makes the games a whole lot less intense than Warioware: MM. The games have 
 to be a little slower paced since you can't just hit the A-button at lightning speed. You have 
 to think for a second, then react on what kind of action is needed on the touch screen. While this 
 provides a challenge at higher levels, I really wish it had that intense feel of the other 2 Wariowares.
 
  
  A neat little feature in Warioware Touched is all the little 'toys' you can unlock. Toys are anything 
 from minigames (actual minigames, not microgames) to useless real life toys, such as Klic-Klax 
 or a Piano.
  
  Of course it uses all the DS features, dual screens, the mic, slicing, tapping, but theres a lack 
 of anything button based. It relys on the touch screen and mic for all the games. How much variety 
 can there really be? Some of the boss levels even repeat. Overall though, it is a very fun game 
 to play in short bursts, but still it's probably the least fun in the series.
  
  - - - - - Graphics 6/10 - - - - -
  
  Warioware doesn't have good graphics by any means, and 
 it fits the game perfectly. This isn't a bad thing. Warioware in 3d wouldn't be warioware. The 
 gamecube version is even in 2d. The graphics aren't an issue, everything is completely great-looking 
 in 2d, all the text is readable, theres no real graphical problems.
  
  If you haven't played a Warioware game, the graphics are almost intentionally bad. There are 'awesome' 
 2-frame animations and some pretty funny cut-scenes with mediocre animation.
  
  - - - - - Sound 6/10 - - - - -
  
  The game doesn't sound bad... its just very reptetitve. I 
 turn the volume off in a crowd because it can get annoying. For each stages, theres only 1 3-second 
 clip of music that plays between levels. It gets progressively faster but you hear it every 2 seconds 
 and its very annoying. I almost wish the game had an actual soundtrack. I guess it fits the frantic 
 mood of the game.
  
  Sound effects aren't anything special, just very general sounds and the 'warioware' voices that 
 say "Excellent" or something when you suceed and "You suck!" when you fail a microgame.
  
  - - - - - Value 5/10 - - - - -
  
  This subject is extremely debatable. You can say Warioware 
 is infinitely replayable or it doesn't have very good replay value. I fall a bit in between leaning 
 towards the latter. Warioware touched is the least replayable in the series, mainly because of 
 the repetitive games. Its best to say that this game is best in short bursts, It's incredibly easy 
 to beat the single player mode in under 2 hours. Unlocking all the toys and beating all the minigames 
 will probably take a few more hours. After i've completed absolutely everything I felt little need 
 to go back to the game at all. It's still crazy fun every once in a while for 15 minutes though.
 
  
  Unfortunately, Touched doesn't match the original Warioware in value. The original Warioware has 
 more replayability than Tetris.
  
  - - - - - Minor Notes - - - - -
  
  Difficulty - Warioware Touched is an easy game. It never gets truly intense so usually when you 
 lose is when theres some kind of mess-up with the touch screen or when you get bored and simply 
 just stop playing so you lose.
  
  Learning Curve - If you can't pick this game up within 1 minute, this isn't the game for you
 
  
  - - - - - Conclusion and Recommendation - - - - -
  
  For the DS, I would recommend Warioware Touched to almost anyone. Its a good DS game that can be 
 loads of fun at times, although boring and repetitive at other times. Still, it remains unmatched 
 in the 'Microgame' genre for the DS. This shouldn't be overlooked.
  
  If you haven't played the original Warioware, it is much better than this version. I suggest you 
 pick that one up instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonic_Jin
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  One of the GBA's best games to date, is Wario Ware Inc.: Mega MicroGame$. Though when you hear about 
 any of the Wario Ware games, they may not sound all that great, but Wario Ware Inc. had pretty 
 much everything you could want out of a GBA game, it was just one of those games you had to play 
 to really appreciate it. In late 2004 the Nintendo DS was unleashed in the U. S and several months 
 later, Nintendo have released a second Wario Ware game that takes advantage of the DS's impressive 
 features, specifically the touch screen and the microphone. There is a lot of story involved in 
 Wario Ware: Touched. The first bit of story you'll see picks up right were the first Wario Ware 
 game left off. Basically, Wario just snagged a Gameboy Advance and a Gameboy Advance SP but then, 
 he trips over and the two handheld systems fall into the sewer. Before Wario can chuck a fit, an 
 old man with wings flies out of the sewers to give Wario his GBA and his GBA SP back, but he also 
 gives him a Nintendo DS. Using the stylus he pokes moles that emerge from the ground. And now with 
 a new system, comes a batch of new minigames (around 180) . So basically the main story is Wario 
 exploiting his friends and making them make new minigames, but in the end it's him getting all 
 the profit. Each character in the game has there own story and there own set of minigames. Each 
 set has 8-16 minigames in it.
  
  For the most part, these minigames are fun. Most of them are unique, and some of them are pretty 
 weird. Out of the 180 or so minigames, there are about 10 that just, aren't much fun at all. Some 
 of the minigames can also be confusing (you won't really know what to do) as your given 1-3 word 
 instructions. But for the most part the minigames are pretty easy, and fun. The best minigame set, 
 would probably have to be Wario Man's set (Wario Man being a super hero version of Wario) it's 
 probably the most challenging one as well (though it's still pretty easy) .
  
  Each minigame (besides the boss stages) are about 3 seconds long. In the first game, this was perfect, 
 the minigames weren't too short or too long, this time, a lot of the minigames could have done 
 a bit better if you were given maybe 2 more seconds. Though for the most part the 3 second timing 
 works fine, there are just some that definitely could have benefited from a second or two more.
 
  
  One of the new additions in Wario Ware: Touched! is the new toys feature. Basically, after each 
 completed minigame set, you will be given a new toy, which can sometimes turn into minigames themselves. 
 Though it may sound like a kiddy feature, some of these toys are actually pretty fun, and one of 
 them is even a game you can play with two players (table tennis!!!) . There is a good amount of 
 toys in the game, and you will have to go through certain conditions to get some of them.
  
  Unfortunately Wario Ware: Touched! features some unimpressive graphics. When you start a new 
 characters set of minigames you will have to watch a cut-scene which explains there story, and 
 most of these cut-scenes look pretty ugly. Its clear the graphics were never meant to be technically 
 impressive, but the art style really doesn't work. But fortunately the sound isn't as bad as the 
 graphics. In fact some of the tunes played in the minigames are pretty catchy, though there isn't 
 any voice work. If you've played the first Wario Ware game, you'll probably be able to plow through 
 this game in about 4 or 5 hours. But then, you can still try to get some high scores (which is 
 great when you have a friend over) and unlock all of the minigames and toys. Overall, you'll probably 
 be able to get 8-12 hours of gameplay out of Wario Ware: Touched! which isn't really that bad, 
 though it's not to good either.
  
  About 95% of the minigames are played using the touch screen, and the other 5% are played using 
 the DS's in built microphone, which is a good or bad thing depending on the player. In comparison 
 Wario Ware: Touched! doesn't really match up that well with it's predecessor, but on it's own merits 
 Wario Ware: Touched isn't bad at all, in fact it's a really fun game, and anyone who owns a Nintendo 
 DS would do well to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFox2892
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 25, 2005 7:26 pm PT
Review:  This game isnt defintly not worth $34.99. There is about a little more then 100 mini games that 
 are the most simpleiest tasks ever. Each mini game is nearly 5 seconds can be shorter. You can 
 be like 12 didfferent charchters in which each one has their own mini games. There are also toys 
 in the game which have to be the stupiedest things i have evr seen. One is just touching a flob 
 of cusatard. Thats i, wow this is enjoyable not! How is that fun. Nintendo should be embrassed for 
 making a game like this. Its sopointless. The mini games are horrible also. One is just petting 
 a dog or cats head and you win. You beat this game easily in a week. I needed it so i could play 
 something new on my ds on an airplane ride. Thought it'd last both ways and also playing time in 
 Florida but no, beat it on the way there. I'am telling you this is a must not buy nintendo ds game 
 and wait for something better and new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukanot
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 10, 2005 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Wario stars in another Warioware game with whacky micro games. But this time its all touchy feely 
 with Warioware Touched.
  In WWT buttons are not required. WWT dumps the old buttons of video games and uses the touch screen 
 and microphone on the DS. This will not a very long time to get used to as the majority of it is 
 using the touch screen through countless micro games. It sure is revolutionary but may get a bit 
 boring after a while. Another feature you can use is the microphone. Blow through the small hole 
 in the DS and interact with games like never before. Its very clever.
  The graphics are OK. They dont really push the limits of the DS's graphical capabilities but still 
 they look very crisp and clean 2D. 
  Warioware Touched sounds more like a GBA game rather than a DS game. But this doesn't really matter 
 as the sound quality is very loud and belts out of the DS's stereo speakers.
  This wont take long to complete. The mini games are fun for some time but get old fast. The unlockable 
 toys are pretty lame too. One good point would be that these micro games can get very addictive. 
 You should get some time of fun with Warioware Touched but for how long is the question.
  Overall, Warioware Touched takes full advantage of the DS's capabilities but maybe a bit too much. 
 They should remember that buttons are essential to games. But still you cant take away the uniquness 
 and fun of Warioware Touched 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neaytssay
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 7, 2005 5:43 am PT
Review:  This game may have gotten a score of 7.2, but it deffinately deserves more. The reason this game 
 is a must have for all you DSers our there, is because this one you'll just want to keep in your 
 DS, and it's all you need. This game really shows off the great tech that the DS has.
  
  The graphics in this game are great. Sure, they are 2D, but it's better than having a questionable 
 3D game. Plus, the game is supposed to be cartoony, and I'm not sure if a handheld is up to the 
 challenge of cell shading yet. The game moves fast and I experienced no slow down. It's colourful, 
 and easy to get into.
  
  The sound in the game is good. Although the music may be a little reused, the sound affects are 
 good, nun the less. If the music or sound affects get on your nerves, though, it's that simple 
 just to turn it down.
  
  The game's value of 30 bucks is awesome, compared to other games. Games for DS, now at least, range 
 from 30-40$. This game, at 30$ is a great buy, and more worth your time than Mega Party MicroGame$ 
 for GC. Being the lowest amount you can pay for a DS game, this is easily worth the money.
  
  The game play, is unbelieveable. The replay value on this game is like one I've never played. 
 I could keep it in my DS, and high scores are fun to beat. I used to think high scores were a boring 
 aspect in games, until Touched!. I think once you play this one, you'll never go back to GBA or 
 GC version. Some people may say it relys on the touch screen too much, but it doesn't, and it is 
 called "Touched!".
  
  Over all, this game is obviously worth checking out, and is one of the best games out there for 
 DS, easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowboy44
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 2, 2005 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Warioware for the GBA is one of the best gba titles out there. When I put in Touched! and started 
 playing the game I thought they had done it again. After I had played it for a couple hours my 
 opinion had changed slightly.
  
  First off is the sound, which though not special, does get the job done. The sound was not made 
 to immerse you in the game and captivate you. Actually, considering that fact they did an excellent 
 job with it. The problem is adds nothing to the experience.
  
  Second is the graphics. The problem here is they look like there predecessor on the GBA including 
 maybe one or two minigames. Considering the far superior graphical ability of the DS compared to 
 the GBA, they should have taken advantage of the situation. This is actually a sign of what I think 
 killed this game; it was rushed.
  
  The gameplay the first few hours was great fun. The controls were efficient and effective. The 
 problem came after the first few hours. It became repetitive, very repetitive. For the most part 
 you get stuck doing the same thing over and over because each person has a theme. Dumb Move! Why 
 do they need a theme? They caused the repetition. Recommended: play the levels where they mix three 
 characters minigames together. Overall, considering the limited library of the DS, I think it is 
 probably worth buying if you have beaten Super Mario 64 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staxx
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2005 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I've never played any of the other WarioWare games but the DS version is a blast. I completely 
 lost track of 
  
  The characters are inventive, the music and sound is excellent, and the gameplay is frenetic and 
 addictive.
  
  Replayability seems huge, in several areas. The souvenir concept is very cool too, and some of 
 them have practical uses outside of the game (kitchen timer, calculator, etc.)
  
  Gamespot's review seems to have put a negative spin on the touch screen use, but I for one think 
 it's a plus. One of the things I like about this game is that I feel like I really interacting 
 with it via the touch screen, not just button mashing.
  
  This game will put a smile on your face guaranteed. Highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BuryMe
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware Touched doesn't seem like a great attempt at a game. A bunch of microgames that use 
 the touch screen doesn't seem to keep interest fore very long. Let me explain.
  
  WWT deson't have much in the way of a story line, gameplay and graphics. It just seems to be a 
 way of showing off the touchscreen to every one.
  
  To play, you select a gameplay character. Then you play a bunch a tiny 5 second long games that 
 use the touch screen. they might involve leading someone home by drawing a line, or blowing into 
 the mic. to make bubbles in a glass of water. most of these games are timed to give you a level 
 of difficulty. Some of these games are fun, and some aren't. The biggest problem is, some of the 
 games don't work. In one game, you need to spin a pole to stop the plate from falling off. The 
 problem is that, no matter how fast you scribble back and forth, the pole almost never moves, so 
 the plate usually falls off, resulting in the loss of a life.
  
  There are a few other games with this problem, but alot of the games work fine.
  
  There aren't 
 many impressive graphics or sounds. All of the games are 2D, and there is very simple music.
  
  WWT is a great game to show off the touch screen, but it gets boring pretty quickly. There 
 isn't a story line or much addictive gameplay, so it's kind of hard to recomend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20231832285720733083928117982160-TotalHenshin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 26, 2005 9:52 pm PT
Review:  In the latest addition to the Wario Ware series, Wario steals a couple of handhelds and drops them 
 in the sewer and an old man comes out and due to Wario's greediness, he ends up snatching a DS. 
 That alone can tell you that there's basically no story whatsoever.
  
  Touched! uses the DS's features pretty well. It has what you would expect of a DS game trying to 
 focus on the touch screen and slightly on the microphone. The microgames offer unique gameplay, 
 as well as the toys (which I'll get into later) . There's not much to say as for gameplay on a Wario 
 Ware game; it's just the usual wacky unique stuff.
  
  Nearly every part of the game looks 2D and each one illustration being done decently. The graphics 
 are good, as well as the character models. Every part of the game looks like it was done with care, 
 but there are a few graphical nitpicks that also take off from it.
  
  The music in the game is actually good. The songs that was played during the games were not annoying 
 and some might even have you singing them after playing the game enough. Overall, the musical score 
 is fitting, and enjoyable. It's nothing that you'll want to download and put on a cd for however.
 
  
  The game is pretty short in all honesty. The toys and the high scores (to get a final toy) are 
 what make the gamer want to keep coming back. Completely certain things in the game or getting 
 a certain score for a character will reward you with a toy. The toys are then available to fiddle 
 around with and I find most of them fun. I've got all but one toy, but the one's that I do have 
 are quite entertaining and worth putting in the extra effort to obtain.
  
  Overall I found the game to be very fun, as are pretty much all Wario Ware games, and the game 
 has enough to merit a purchase. If the DS had a larger library, then I wouldn't consider this a 
 must-have title; but all things considering, I'd say this is must-have for anyone who's looking 
 for a more than decent DS game. It's not must-have, but it's very much worth to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 26, 2005 1:15 am PT
Review:  I just got a ds and I love the hardware but with wario as my only game (plus the demo) I'm sadly, 
 let down. This is a fun game and shows just what can be done on the DS but most of these games 
 are all just tap this or drag that with the ocationaly blow into teh microphone. This is 1 of the 
 2 reasons not to buy this game. The unloackables is the second reason. While warioware for gba 
 fetures some fun yet shallow games, warioware touched fetures thing that cant even be defined as 
 games. They are more like virtual versions of those cheap plastic toys you get at the doller store. 
 I think I'll go to the pros and cons table now to explain the rest.
  
  Pros:
  New way of playin warioware.
  2d animations are very smooth and nice.
  New batch of NES classics.
 
  
  Cons:
  The unlockable mini games are lame
  Woulda been nice to see SOME kind of buttons in teh minigames. 
  Not nearly as chalenging and 
 replayable as teh last one.
  Most games are the same basic games you played just new animations (like poke a bubble, poke a 
 bug, poke a drum)
  
  Pick it up if you want but just dont expect to much out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsOmniaC777
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 22, 2005 10:52 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I bought 4 my DS. After playing it 4 the first time, I got addicted 2 it 
 4 about 3 hours. The best way I can put it: I love microgames. In the other WarioWare games, u 
 had about over 200 microgames, in this one, only over 180. But the fun lasts 4 quite a while. Whenever 
 u play this, u can't help, but laugh at the comedic humor in most of these games. But the biggest 
 downside: how short it is. For most people, u can be this game in about 4 hours, but if you're 
 like me, u want 2 unlock EVERYTHING. Even though the game may short, the fun stays with u 4 a long, 
 long time. For me, I'm glad I bought this game, but 4 the rest of u, just give it a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JesusDude4ever
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 20, 2005 2:12 am PT
Review:  WarioWare: Touched! is a game that can entertain you at first, but you'll eventually end up saying, 
 "Why did I buy that piece of garbage for $30?" Many people suggested this game, saying it was innovative 
 and addictive. Don't get me wrong, this game definitely deserves credit, but it lacks in areas 
 that make this game anything but flawless.
  
  First off, the touch screen is overly used. Yes, this should be expected, as it is named Touched!, 
 but what is the difference between rolling a wheel, a snowball or a picture? Or poking balloons, 
 bubbles or bugs? There are many concepts that have about 25 mini-games on them each. Rotating, 
 touching, dragging, scribbling, rubbing, blowing and cutting. But with the same concepts over and 
 over again, you find yourself wondering, why am I doing the same thing with different props?
  
  Second, there is a huge issue with lastibility. I rented this game (thankfully) , only to my 
 dismay, I beat it in 8 hours. Now the actual game itself, I beat in less than 1. After you have 
 completed all 8 characters objectives (and 4 mini game mixers) , you're supposed to go back and 
 play the same thing, but get all the minigames. Once you've done this, you can go to album mode 
 and beat each of the mini games aprox. 10 - 20 times to earn a rose. Once you've earned a rose 
 on each mini-game for a character, they get a gold crown! Woo hoo, right? Wrong. The only prize 
 you get from all your accomplishments are cheap toys which go in your toy box. These have absolutely 
 no value and don't entertain you for any much longer than the micro games did.
  
  Overall, this is a good game, just not much thought was put into it. The graphics are cheesy cartoons 
 and the music is repetitive annoying music that will drive you insane. This game is definately 
 not worth your money, so you would be better off renting it first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7Xfan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 18, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Any one with a DS right now is saying where are the games, i have 2 answers. 
  1- Some good ones are getting bad ratings, and slipping out from under your nose
  2- There really 
 arent gonna be any good games until late this year, then it should get goin
  Don't let this game slip by if you've got a DS, its something you gotta try. Gamespots review is 
 kind of hypocritical because they want the touch screen to get good use and when its used like 
 this they complain. I understand they want better uses and that i guess makes sense, but in the 
 context of a game like this it would be hard to make much if any other uses of the touch screen.
 
  
  
  I've noticed a time or two (and ive played it alot so this is a smaal complaint) where the touch 
 screen just didn't quite respond well enough. So 2 out of the thousands of times.
  it all comes down to that too.. The touch screen is more then what you could ever ask for in being 
 precise. 
  
  This game is also pretty good looking especially at times when you see these barrels fly across 
 the screen that strangely remind me of Timsplitters barrels..? Well they look that good/ high quality. 
 It's all around good use of graphics. A few microgames involve both screens, but just about everyone 
 of them has a reaction on the top screen you wouldnt notice unless you looked for it. and multiple 
 reactions for each micro game. (each minigame has three microgame skill levels, each with a different 
 reaction)
  
  Its nothing special in sound terms but its a Wario Ware sound which is alright but they have some 
 vocal parts mixed in, which in today's world of video games shouldn't be considered special. Its 
 fine nothing great.
  
  Value, o its valuable! In reality to 100% complete the game it takes about as long as a normal 
 game, but then there's Ping Pong (Table Tennis) for two player which is cool, all the little toys 
 you get to play with, and then setting high scores on the games. So its never ends. After the 15-20 
 hours you spend unlocking everything you'll come back time and time again.
  
  Its not the most fun I've had on DS, but its close, and it will be more then just a game that holds 
 you over until we get to the good stuff. It holds up well on its own. Got a DS? Then there's no 
 complaining abou shortage of good games until you beat this one. 
  -Yoshi's Touch and Go
  -Feel The Magic XX/XY
  -The Urbz
  -Mario 64 DS (if you beat it on N64 then i can see why you 
 wouldnt get it.)
  There's your list of games to complete before complaining 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samlacoup
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 18, 2005 6:41 am PT
Review:  The basis of Wario Ware games start to get well-known, you are to complete as quick as possible 
 a serie of mini-game, each as crazy as each other. It is on the same principle that Wario Ware 
 touched is based but with the help of the stillus.
  
  Graphically the game is as crazy as fun, and the mini-games are very varied and amusing. Although 
 the game doesn't reach a techical exploit, it is very peasant.
  
  One of the main advantage of using the stillus is that it is easy and suitable for everyone. Wario 
 Ware touched! take full advantage of this feature and the enjoyment is quick.
  
  On the overall we can say that Wario Ware is enjoyable and addictive, so addictive that you'll 
 be able to finish the game in a few hours only. The game quickly shows its life-line and mini-games 
 variety. The value may be increased as you play the stages again to increase your score.
  
  Finally the title revealed to be highly fun but too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kruegersc4
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 13, 2005 9:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is all about minigames, and it's still fun.
  When you first start, you play mini games with a tapping theme, which are "Wario's minigames". 
 If you beat the high score for Wario, you unlock other characters from the Wario Ware universe, 
 and must beat their high scores to unlock more people. (I don't want to spoil it for you so I won't 
 say who everyone is) Each character has different types of touch-screen based minigames; you'll 
 have to drag things, spin things, touch things, and even play a whole bunch based on Nintendo classics. 
 Some character's games are also a mix of a few other people's minigames, and there are three teddy 
 bears with all of them.
  You can also play one minigame over and over again. Every time you beat it you go up one level, 
 and after you beat the high score for beating the minigame, you have completed it. If you complete 
 them all, I think you get a surprise. (I haven't done that yet.) There are also many souvenirs 
 you can get. Some of these "games" are pretty pointless, but I still have a strange attraction 
 to them.
  The one complaint I had was that this game was too short. I practically beat it while I was sitting 
 on a bench in the Mall for two hours. (I still can't believe, I sat there for so long) 180 minigames 
 seem like a lot, but not when they're each only a few seconds long.
  I recommend this game to those who have a short attention span or love minigames. Most other people 
 can pick this up and have fun until they beat it, but won't find it very exciting after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2005 4:27 am PT
Review:  Finally a game that totally takes advantage of the capabilities of the Nintendo DS! Warioware: 
 Touched takes gamers on a wild and fast ride through 200 micro-games that stem from playing classic 
 NES games to just simply picking your nose. Warioware: Touched isnt going to win any game of the 
 year awards, and it doesnt try to. Warioware: Touched simply gives fans of the series what it 
 wants, a solid addition to the series that takes full advantage of the system its on. Warioware 
 Touched, even though a tad short, doesnt disappoint its loyal fans.
  
  
  
  For those who are unfamiliar with the Warioware series on the Game Boy Advance, Warioware: Touched 
 is all about micro-games. Each level consists of many micro-games that get faster and increase 
 in difficulty the farther you proceed in the game. Considering how good you are, the game can get 
 insanely fast at times. The only thing that separates Warioware: Touched with its predecessors 
 on the Game Boy Advance and Gamecube is that this edition relies totally on the stylus and microphone 
 for all gameplay control. Fans of Feel the Magic on the DS will adore this game. It packs more 
 polish and deeper gameplay mechanics than Feel The Magic, and is a lot more fun to play. 
  
  
  The gameplay variation in Warioware: Touched is the one element in this game that brings 
 everything together. Players are asked to draw, rub, poke, and slice objects with their stylus. 
 In addition to all of this one specific level you are asked to simply use your microphone and scream 
 or blow into it to make your character do what you wish. Seeing your character respond in such 
 a fashion can create hours of fun, enticing gameplay that cant be found on any other system out 
 there right now.
  
  Despite solid gameplay mechanics, the most entertaining elements of Warioware: Touched are its 
 speed and its sound. First time players of the series may be unable to keep the stylus moving at 
 such a rapid speed in the beginning , but should be able to get used to the speed of the game after 
 an hour or two. 
  
  As far as the sound in this game is concerned, no other DS game takes this much advantage of the 
 built in surround sound of the DS better than Warioware: Touched. Every single level is accompanied 
 by lush sound effects and music that capture the essence of each level perfectly. Eventually one 
 plays the game so much that the songs became stuck in your head, and from what Ive seen from a 
 few message 
  boards on the internet, they dont come out easily either.
  
  The one drawback this game unfortunately suffers from is its length. Despite over eight levels 
 consisting of over 200 micro-games, it only takes about 8 hours to complete. Once you finish the 
 game however, you are able to unlock several other micro-games. These games consist of playing 
 a piano ,2 player ping pong using one DS, and having a calculator. These micro-games add to the 
 games already 
  moderate playability, and make up for the games short length. 
  
  
  Warioware: Touched is a great example of what can be done with a system like the Nintendo DS. Even 
 though the game is a tad on the short side, the game is so much fun that youll find yourself playing 
 the game a lot even if you have already beat it. Fans of previous Warioware titles will find another 
 impressive title to add to their collection, while new DS owners who have never played the series 
 will find 
  something that is definitely worth their time.
  
  Overall rating 8 out of 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocoapuffs50
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 2, 2005 5:26 pm PT
Review:  
  
  The previous Wario Ware game for the GBA depicated these key concepts throughout the game. These 
 are humor, variety, innovation, and simplistic Gameplay. This formula created one of the most insane 
 games on nintendos game boy advance. Now with the release of the DS, Nintendo shifts the series 
 over to its Dual Screened system, but the question is, does the DSs capabilities make this a great 
 game? Well, if you really like the series or want something funny, clever, and different for your 
 DS Wario Ware is your game. This game focuses on using the touch screen and the Mic in playing 
 the microgames, instead of using the d-pad. Now this is where the game takes a blow to the head, 
 because it takes away the key attribute that makes this series so great. Im not saying this is 
 a bad game, its just the variety of the game is very limited which is the biggest fault of the 
 entire game. This is because the Gameplay gets very redundant and they used the same use of the 
 touch screen too much.
  
  The game basically has you choose from a wide range of characters which has its own set of microgames 
 which must be completed in order to advance. Each game lasts about 5 or 6 seconds and is preformed 
 by using a simple touch to the touch screen or by using the mic. Most games have you doing one 
 of the following, drawing on the screen, tapping the screen in various places, dragging an object 
 around, or blowing into the mic. Initially, this is really fun. But Nintendo forgot to change the 
 gameplay around in a way that keeps you engaged for long periods of time.
  
  Gameplay- Overall, the touch screen works well and the mic. responds smoothly, as to not pull you 
 out of the experience. Sometimes youll have some frustration with the touch screen, but not that 
 often. The operations you preform during the games are easy to preform, but let me reiterate that 
 it gets way to redundant after awhile. 
  
  Graphics- The graphics hold the same style as the previous games. The graphics are well done, the 
 animations are smooth and the game has a great FPS. The game has a cartoon sort of feel to it, 
 which is good because I cant see a better way to present this game other then this way. Sometimes, 
 youll see some Photoshop going on especially when they take realistic graphics and incorporate 
 them into the games. Ex: puppy, peoples heads, other animals. The graphics dont really give you 
 a setting however, usually just a blank screen in the background with the object in the foreground. 
 Which is my only complaint about the games visuals.
  
  Sound- The sound in the game is insane, literally. The tempo increases as you advance through the 
 levels, and there is even some voice acting done in a couple of the games. Overall the sound did 
 not disappoint but it didnt really blow me away either.
  
  Value- The game should give you about 2 or 3 hours of ROFL humor and charm. The game is also incredibly 
 fun for that period of time. However, the limited variety in gameplay would make this game seem 
 like a demo more then a full length game. On a positive note the game does have some replay value 
 and the incentive to go back and beat your high scores.
  
  Tilt- I have failed to mention many times that this game is the only game in existence that has 
 made me ROFL. Sure there are some games with humor and charm. But this game really overdoes itself 
 with a few of these games. Not all the games are like this, but they all have a sense of humor 
 to them which is the best part of this game. 
  
  Closing comments: Well if your in the need for another round of Wario Ware, or are looking for 
 something different for your DS, then this game is for you. I would also recommend renting this 
 game, if you have a few hours that you want to kill say on a road trip, theyll be well spent on 
 this game. Although the value of the game is somewhat limited everyone is sure to have a great 
 time playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcadem
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 30, 2005 7:25 pm PT
Review:  While I have not tried any other Warioware game I've always really been itching to and this game 
 seemed like the perfect opportunity. The game is probably the best all around showcase of the NDS's 
 unique features, using the touch screen and the microphone the gameplay is unlike anything I've 
 ever seen before.
  
  The touch screen is where the main action is and where you carry out all actions that don't involve 
 blowing into the microphone. The top screen is mainly used for statistics in between minigames 
 but during them it becomes imperative to pay attention to it also as sometimes vital info is displayed 
 there, such as hints on how to win the given minigame. Each minigame (or microgame if you prefer) 
 is extremely short (taking about 5 seconds each, not counting boss minigames) and none of them 
 really stand up on their own. Fortunately there are A LOT of minigames (180+) and these are categorized 
 down to various characters. For example, Wario's minigames revolve around poking, Mona's around 
 cutting, Mike's around blowing into the mic and so forth and there are even characters that mix 
 some minigame classes together. The minigames are definitely alot of fun for the first few times 
 but the fun factor starts to diminish after you have unlocked every character there is (which should 
 only take you an hour or two) . However you will probably want to unlock everything to see the game's 
 numerous "souvenirs", which are basically silly little toys that show of the DS's capabilities 
 (including a real kitchen timer, I'm not joking) although a few are fun little games you can play 
 if you become tired of the minigames.
  
  This is one of those games where graphics really don't matter. The game is almost completely 2-D 
 (with a few 3-D objects here and there but nothing much) and as such it's pretty good and has a 
 very unique art style that fits perfectly with the wacky gameplay. As said though the game is not 
 about showing of the graphical power of the DS but rather it's unique features and this is exactly 
 what it does.
  
  The sound is pretty good but the game's tunes -though catchy- can get a little tiring after a while. 
 All said though, the sound doesn't really stand out in any way anymore than the graphics and it's 
 quite possible to play the game muted and enjoy it every bit as much as otherwise.
  
  So with all that said lets look at the game's weak and strong points to before we wrap this up
 
  
  +Pros   Fun - weird - unique gameplay ideas -
  
  -Cons   Very short - could have used the buttons more, instead of just the touch screen and mic 
 - no multiplayer
  
  All in all, if you're considering buying this game you might want to think about if you really 
 want to spend your money on a two hour game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DualSwiss
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 29, 2005 5:38 am PT
Review:  Wario ware touched! is a pretty good game, you get 180 micro games, then you get extras, the 180 
 microgames are divided by characters, each owning there own types of microgames, each microgame 
 either use the touch screen or the microphone, that you blow in, and each microgame last for a 
 short time, of an average of 5-10 seconds. and there are also boss levels, which are longer microgames 
 that are longer and that usualy require more thinking. the game is separated in 3 parts:
  
  the first part is lets you chose from a mode of gaming, each mode is speacial, modes usualy work 
 where you get 4 lives, and each time you lose at a game, you lose a life, and each time you acomplish 
 a boss level, you get a new life, there is a mode for each character, and there are the bear modes, 
 each character has its own minigames, and the bears are special: the bear levels are just a mix 
 of all the 180 microgames but with diferetn types: there is hardcore mix, where you have 1 life 
 and the games are at the maximum hardness, gnarly mix, which is going really fast, and monster 
 megamix, which is normal.
  
  the seconds part lets you play all the microgames at any time, you get to play them once you have 
 played them once in the first mode, each game has a high score, if you beat it, you get marked 
 for it, and if you they all get marked, you get something new.
  
  the third part is a toy room, it is here that you can store all the extras, the extras can be useless 
 things such as a cameleon or just a talking granny, but there is some cool things like a piano, 
 and there is the minigames, the real minigames, not microgames. the minigames are just games that 
 you can play for ever and you get a high score, and there is also a 2 player game which is table 
 tennis, or Aka pong ping.
  
  every character has its own type of microgames : 
  -wario: has the beginers microgamers, or you could say the training microgames.
  -Mona: regular 
 microgame.
  -jimmy: mostly rubbing games.
  -Dr. Crygor: spinning and twirling microgames.
  -Ashley: all about draging stuff.
  -Kat&Ana: 
 scribling microgames
  -Mike: all his games require you to blow in the microphone, but beware, theres a special leve where 
 your soposed to be silent, and you lose if you actulay blow in it.
  -9Volt&18Volt: old school nintendo microgames
  -warioman: these are the hard microgames.
  
 
  to conclude my review, this game is pretty good, the first part is kinda short, but there is the 
 part of passing the high score with all the 180 microgames that is time consuming, besides the 
 microgames, you get to do some minigames and do some pretty useless extras, even if you finish 
 the first part fairly quickly, it is still fun to play it again. if i were to compare this game 
 to the gba version, i would have to say that i have a overall more fun with the gba version, WW 
 touched has funner microgames, that are more inovating using the touch screen and the microphone, 
 but all the extras and the characters and all in the gba is actualy more fun then this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunarmanx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2005 3:48 am PT
Review:  This game is just, wow. I mean really, when i got it i just couldn't put it down. The gameplay 
 uses mostly touch screen, but at points also uses the mic. But just becuase it only uses these 
 doesn't mean it's not a good game. In fact, think it's a great game. True it doesn't take that 
 long to beat, but you'll still be playing the microgames, and trying to beat your scores, over 
 and over again.
  
  The graphics on this are basically a bunch of cartoon type scenes. It's still some pretty cool 
 stuff though. 
  
  The sound of this game is good, it has a bunch of very catchy music, you'll have the toons stuck 
 in your head for a long time. 
  
  The story of this game is basically Wario found a DS and decided to make another game to get a 
 bunch of money. So you go through each characters microgames, unlocking new characters, toys, and 
 microgames. 
  
  Overall, i don't regret one bit buying this game. It seriousely rocks. I don't think i'll get bored 
 of it for along time. It is definitly searching a bunch of different stores to find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver022
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 26, 2005 6:22 am PT
Review:  Before I begin, let me just recommend that if you do, indeed, decide to try WarioWare Touched! 
 to rent it before you make a decision as to whether you're going to purchase it or not. I'm new 
 to the whole Warioware business, as I've never played the GBA or GC versions, so I wasn't quite 
 sure what to expect. The game takes advantage of everything the DS stands for, but that just isn't 
 enough (for me) . The manic mini games are fun, but not for very long. The formula becomes quite 
 tiresome, though many will tell you differently. I for one enjoy mini games, but I don't think 
 it's fair to dish out $50 (Canadian) for a few mini games. Super Mario 64 had AWESOME mini games, 
 and a great adventure game as well. I don't understand the hype surrounding the WarioWare saga, 
 and I can't say I disagree with Gamespot's score. Underrated? Not quite. It's important not to 
 rely on what critics have to say, and to just play the game yourself. I have, and wasn't so impressed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rcsaints
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 25, 2005 10:18 pm PT
Review:  +++Gameplay+++ 9/10
  Warioware is not a normal game. You've probably played nothing like it unless you played Wario 
 Ware, Inc: Minigame Mania [GBA] , WarioWare Inc.: Mega MicroGame$ [GBA]
  or WarioWare Inc.: Mega Party Game$ [GCN] . This Warioware game features over 180 microgames to 
 play with your touch screen. You may say well, they're minigames aren't they? No. The games are 
 only two to three seconds long , making them micro not mini. All of the games require either using 
 the microphone or touch screen. You never use the A, B, X, or Y buttons in the microgames, making 
 this the game that makes the best use of the DS's capibilities. You play a series of microgames 
 such as cutting meat, or rolling toilet paper :P Some games are weird, some are fun, and some are 
 just zany. You play through each character's microgames until you lose your 4 lives or beat the 
 boss stage. After beating the boss stage you can unlock more character's microgames to go play. 
 There are 2 modes. One mode is called 'games" mode where you try and complete each character's 
 microgames, and after 20-30 microgames you'll face a boss microgame stage. The other mode is called 
 "The Album", where you can play all of the microgames you've unlocked in "games" mode. Although 
 "games" mode is short, the replayability from the cool microgames will have you coming back for 
 more.
  
  +++Graphics+++ 7/10
  The graphics are nothing out of the ordinary. Pretty bland, but it doesn't really matter in this 
 game. You'll be too busy trying to beat the microgames to worry about the graphics. The graphics 
 are 2D but some microgames feature 3D graphics. Still pretty colorful graphics, nothing to worry 
 about.
  
  +++Sound and Story+++ So:6/10 St: N/A
  The sound in this game is fun and upbeat. Each character's music is slightly different although 
 it can get repetitive. There isn't really a story, but each character has a semi-intro story. Nothing 
 deep or amazing though...
  
  +++Replay Value, Difficulty, and Length+++ RV:10/10 D: Medium L: Short
  Replay Value: Because of 
 the 180 microgames and being able to keep track of your high score for each of the characters, 
 Warioware Touched has great Replay Value.
  Difficulty: Depends what microgame. Some are hard and some are very simple.
  Length: Too Short, 
 although the replay value makes up for some of the shortness.
  
  +++Overall+++ 8.6
  Warioware Touched is a buy for gamers that just want to be able to play and play again, and that 
 don't care about storyline or length. This game is easily one of the best DS games out and is worth 
 a rent if you can find a store that rents handheld games.
  A great game for on the go...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngamer8
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 22, 2005 2:31 am PT
Review:  Warioware: Touched may not be the best game in every way, but boy is it fun. The 180 mini-games 
 are all very fun, and never dull. Although some can be similar, the lust doesn't wear off. The 
 game's graphics are mostly 2-D but some mini-games contain 3-D graphics. Though the 2-D graphics 
 are last generation, they fit perfectly with the gameplay. The most innovative parts of the game 
 are the mini-games where you have to blow into the microphone to perform a task. For example: one 
 mini-game has a guy with gum in his mouth. The screen says "Bubble!" and then you have to blow 
 a bubble in a certain amount of time.
  As there aren't too many good games for the DS so far, this is one you should pick up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: culturejammer
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 21, 2005 10:47 am PT
Review:  If you don't have any experience with WarioWare, this game will grow on you rather quickly. The 
 entire notion of "microgames" is a fantastic innovation for handheld gaming. You can pick up a 
 WarioWare game and kill a few minutes or sit down and play for hours. The pace and craziness of 
 the experience has a pretty universal appeal, as the microgames are simple enough for anyone to 
 learn and enjoy.
  
  If this is news to you, you will likely enjoy WarioWare Touched!. If it is not, I think that you 
 will be as dissapointed as I am at how this game not only fails to improve upon the original, but 
 even to fill its shoes. To be completely honest, I had high expectations. I was excited to hear 
 that Intelligent Systems (developers of Paper Mario, both Advance Wars, and Fire Emblem) was codeveloping 
 the game, and I thought that they would be sure to make the game live up to its potential. I expected 
 Nintendo to show us how the DS was superior to the GBA by making use of the larger memory capacity 
 and the faster processors, as well as the touch screen - I was sorely dissapointed. 
  
  Touched! actually seems shorter than the original game. There are not nearly enough microgames 
 considering the potential of the hardware. The graphics are mostly identical to the original as 
 well. Nintendo also failed to utilize the wireless capabilities of the DS by including some of 
 the multi-player action that they felt was so important as to necessitate rereleasing the original 
 WarioWare for the Game Cube. The only thing that makes this a DS game is the fact that rather than 
 pressing buttons, on is tapping the screen (sometimes tapping buttons that are pictured on the 
 screen...) .
  
  If you are a WarioWare veteran, I would not pay full price for this game. It is my understanding 
 that the soon to be released WarioWare Twisted! for the GBA is a far superior, and longer lasting, 
 game. I hope that you heed my advice and don't make the same mistake that I did. If you are new 
 to the series, pick up the original and play it on you DS if you really want to play your DS, you'll 
 have more fun that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerjt
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 20, 2005 1:31 am PT
Review:  If you are looking to make use of all of the new feachers that the DS has to offer then Wario Ware 
 Touched is the game for you. This game is revolutionary as you makes use of the touch screen and 
 the microphine. The game is compiled of over 100 mine games. In the games you rub, slice, drow 
 lings, scribble or blow into the microphone. If this is not sounding strange then pick up a coppy 
 of the game. Carfull where you play this game as you will look stang as you are blowing into the 
 microphone. This is one of the best games on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IkeXC07
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2005 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Since the release of the WarioWare: Mega Micro Minigame$. I have patiently been waiting a sequel. 
 I bought this game a couple days after it came out. I can now say that this is my favorite DS game. 
 The game play is just as frantic as the first. It's also just as frustrating to unlock everything- 
 especially completing every minigame-. I am also hoping more types of games are made available 
 because you end up just doing a lot of the same things. The mike should also be used at the same 
 time as the touch screen to create an even more frantic. I also hope in the next game they will 
 use the buttons to make it more frantic. I would buy this game if you have a DS simply because 
 it is the best DS title out in the market. Overall, an amzing exprience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WerePaladin
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 17, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  My foray into the somewhat different world of the Nintendo DS began with WarioWare Touched! For 
 someone who has never played any WarioWare games, it was quite an eye-opener, but quite good fun 
 just the same. :)
  
  The Gameplay in WarioWare Touched! is fairly simple to pick up, even for someone who has never 
 played a single game on the DS before - like myself for instance. Those of you who are unfamiliar 
 with the WarioWare games will find yourself playing quite a few "microgames", which are usually 
 quite simple - but often quite amusing and strangely addictive - tasks you need to achieve within 
 a short period of time. 
  
  The microgames are packaged up with a certain character within the game, such as Wario himself, 
 or other amusing characters such as 9 volt or Dr Crygor. Each character has a short story associated 
 with their games, such as battling aliens in a Karaoke competition, or chasing a monkey that has 
 stolen some bananas. In addition to a given story, each character's games have a style associated 
 with them. For example, Wario's games generally involve tapping on the Touch Screen with the stylus, 
 whereas Mike's involve blowing into the microphone, and Ashley's involve dragging things across 
 the screen.
  
  Now, with the exception of Mike's games, every other game relies on the Stylus and Touch Screen. 
 For a new player, this will involve a certain amount of confusion until you figure out how to use 
 these tools effectively, but it's fairly easy to pick up. I found this to be quite a good introduction 
 to the whole concept of using the Touch Screen for playing games, but got a bit concerned when 
 playing some of the higher levels as I was worried I was gonna drive the stylus through the screen 
 while I was trying to pop a (seemingly) infinite number of balloons! :)
  
  Finishing a characer's story unlocks new characters to play with and also some kind of strange 
 toy to play with in the Toy Room. These toys will vary from the amusing to the downright weird 
 - for example, what's a Grandma simulator? A second playing through each character's games will 
 enable you to unlock a second toy should you pass a given level, usually somewhere between 20 and 
 30 for a given character. So after a time, you build up quite a supply of weird and wonderful toys 
 to play with, in addition to the microgames themselves.
  
  An added bonus is the Album feature, where you can replay any individual microgame that you have 
 already played during a story. This can get quite frantic at times, particularly when you're on 
 the edge of your seat, waiting for the brief seconds that you will be getting to complete the task 
 in front of you. Although there is some variety in each level of the selected microgame, it does 
 get a lil' bit repetitive after a while. Having said that, there is some strange satisfaction in 
 completing Level 60 of a given game and then having a quiet lie down to recover. :D
  
  One question though - where's the multiplayer part? One of the big drawcards of the Nintendo DS 
 is the ability to play wireless multiplayer games. WarioWare Touched! doesn't seem to have that 
 capability at all, which was a bit disappointing. Sure, you can play Table Tennis with a friend, 
 but that is with both of you using the same console. It doesn't take away much from the game, but 
 would have been an interesting addition.
  
  The sounds and music in the game aren't bad. The music in between each level tends to get a bit 
 repetitive after a while, particularly when you're going for those second toys for each character. 
 However, inside each microgame you will usually find a cheery lil' ditty playing away, with one 
 or two exceptions where there is simply silence. But for the most part, there is a decent amount 
 of silly noises and cutesy tunes happening whenever you play a game. The only problem with that 
 is that even if you find one that you like, it's over a lil' too fast given the short length of 
 each microgame.
  
  The game itself felt a bit short for my liking. Now don't get me wrong, I quite enjoyed all the 
 slicing and stabbing and popping and dragging and other weird and wonderful things involved. I 
 also found a lot of the games to be quite amusing, and a lot of them got a chuckle from me. So 
 I enjoyed the game itself quite a lot. It just seemed a bit easy to wade through all the character's 
 stories and even unlock their second toys. The Album feature allows some replay value for the microgames 
 you enjoyed the most, and even some that you didn't. This extends the play time of the game somewhat, 
 as you earn yourself some lil' flower type things for achieving a given level within each game, 
 but I am unsure as to what this ultimately earns you.
  
  Overall? If you're looking for a good introduction to the Touch Screen, and enjoy playing some 
 amusing, sometimes quite silly, but also strangely addictive games, then check out WarioWare Touched! 
 It's well worth a look, but I'd probably suggest a rental at first. If you enjoy it, then go ahead 
 and buy it! I know I did. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-peGa
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2005 12:38 am PT
Review:  I have never played a WarioWare game until this one. My first impressions were curious ones; I 
 didnt know what to think of the game. Super speedy microgames blended in with a strange storyline 
 made me baffled and enticed at the same time. I leaned more on the greener side of the fence and 
 refreshed my thirst by going insane playing these incredibly fast games on and on.
  
  WarioWare: Touched is the latest addition to the growing WarioWare saga, currently the 4th installment. 
 It's a game about quick thinking and quick reflexes, and it will challenge you until your mad. 
 With somewhere over 200 "microgames" (each lasts only up to 3 seconds) , dozens of little toys", 
 and a handful of actual mini games, this game will keep you busy long after the main story mode 
 is complete.
  
  o here's how the game fundamentally plays: You choose a character, each with a set of about 20 
 games of a certain category (rubbing, pulling, cutting, and so on) . Suddenly you're overrun with 
 3-second snippets of games, each giving you an instant to figure out what's going on and then actually 
 do it. Make a flaw, and you lose a life. Emerge victorious, and be thrown into the next mini game. 
 Once you lose your 4 lives, it's game over. If you can survive long enough you'll get to take on 
 a longer, more difficult Boss Game". If you pass that, the game speeds up and you get to continue 
 through the next string of tougher games! It's a bizarre blast of illogical, frenzied fun, and 
 just about as much fun to sit and watch, as it is to play.
  
  Mini games range from the foolishly simple (Tap the drum until the sleeping man wakes up!) to the 
 devilishly tough (Turn the locker dial!) , from humdrum (Draw a circle around the buttons!) to the 
 insanely uncanny (Tap the kitty and watch them dance in a shower of heart-shaped confetti!) . Most 
 of the fun comes in having no idea what to expect, as you finish cutting a slab of meat in half 
 only to be thrust into challenge to throw a ninja star at a teleporting ninja. Some games are  
 forcing you to fail in your first run and check them out in the album until you figure out what 
 to do. Boss games are usually more thought-out, with one forcing you drive an RC-car away from 
 a massive boy, and another taking you on an adventure into someone's nasal cavity. It also helps 
 that the Boss Stages dont have time limits. Practice makes perfect though, and once you know how 
 to handle every mini game, you can have a blast taking on some of the more challenging "Hardcore 
 Mixes".
  
  The games also take huge advantage of the DS's capabilities: Every game is handled using either 
 the stylus or the microphone, so no D-Pad or button usage is needed at all. You'll use the stylus 
 to tap, rub, poke, draw, pull, rotate, and push your way to success. The microphone is used for 
 a number of mini games causing you to blow. I only wished more mini games used the dual screens, 
 as many of them simply display your instructions on the top screen.
  
  It's rather difficult to judge a game like WarioWare on it's graphics, since it clearly prides 
 itself more on fast thinking than you taking a second to admire the views. The games display a 
 huge range of visual styles, with some games featuring photorealistic pictures, others with doodles, 
 other with cartoons, and a handful actually using the DS's 3D-capabilities. The game's character 
 cut-scenes are very nicely animated though, and the spinning map on the dual screens is pretty 
 neat.
  
  The sound is rather decent, but clearly not a primary factor. You can unlock the special Mona's 
 Pizza Place song by using an original WarioWare cartridge, but otherwise it's mostly the music 
 of whatever character you're playing. Some microgames actually have catchy music, but you will 
 not have time to pay attention. Deep in the game is a DJ mini game where you can scratch to the 
 sounds of Hogan's Ally or the Mario Paint song too.
  
  The story mode is short, and can easily be beat in a day, but the game does have dozens of toys 
 to be unlocked by beating the high scores of the mini games and characters. Each individual game 
 can also be replayed until it's score is broken, which adds some replay, and since the game is 
 so quick, you can easily just pick-up-and-play whenever you have the time. The one problem I had 
 is that I wish it had some multiplayer. Original WarioWare had the strangely addictive 2-play-on-one-GBA 
 games, and the GC version featured some very fun twists on the usual microgame formula. If wireless 
 were used, the replay value would easily be increased.
  
  So how does Touched! rank in the end? Well, it's easily most of the most inventive games I've played 
 in a while, it's comical, it's fun to watch someone else play, and it will last you for a nice 
 long time after you've beat it. Some multiplayer could have helped, along with maybe a set of classic-style 
 games using the buttons. But overall, Touched! makes great use of the DS capabilities, and especially 
 at this early stage in the DS's history, should be in every DS owner's collection.
  
  From thegreenplug. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmen21
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 14, 2005 8:44 pm PT
Review:  When WarioWare: Microgame$ came out, it was a highly addictive and original game, and many GBA 
 owners called it a classic and a must-have title. WarioWare: Touched has now come out, and the 
 question is: Is it as good as the first? Unfortunately, while it may seem fun at first, it'll get 
 old really fast and will probably keep you occupied for a very short time. If a friend of yours 
 has this game, than your better off borrowing it from him.
  
  The gameplay is like the first, only it has slightly different levels and controls, and not as 
 much variety as you would like to think. It's basically the same thing: You try to finish a minigame 
 in a matter of seconds before time runs out, and you either use the pen (I've forgotton the name) 
 or the microphone installed in the DS. While this makes good use of the touch pad, it relies WAY 
 too heavily on it, and that kinda takes some of the variety out of the game.
  
  The graphics are passible, though there's nothing really much to say about it, being strange and 
 silly as it is.
  
  The sound is also like the first, only the repetitive music and sound effects will probably get 
 on your nerves after awhile, and it sounds exactly like it was copied from the first.
  
  Overall, if you absolutely loved the first WarioWare, than Touched! will definetly fit the bill. 
 Otherwise, you could do better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubedman990
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2005 12:42 am PT
Review:  WarioWare, Inc.: Mega Microgame$ was released on the GameBoy Advance in 2003, making a groundbreaking 
 new genre in the handheld video gaming industry. A simple game with much replay value, WarioWare 
 Touched! takes it to a new level.
  
  The game is still is simple and as fun as its predecessor, but ads a new twist (pardon the pun) 
 to the original gameplay style: no buttons. Built from ground-up, this game is totally new and 
 still as fun. I will review each element of the game.
  
  --Title Screen --
  Yes I spelled it right. The title screen of this game is fun to mess around with. You can paint 
 the screen with green balls, rainbow stars, erase them, and ram a nose into a Wario-bug thing and 
 make a giant nose on the screen... to shove the star and ball (s) into.
  
  --Microgames --
  The microgames are simple, and are varied in art and music styles. They never get old and provide 
 that good 'ol grab-and-go fun of the old monochrome days of GameBoy. There are 8 different touch-screen 
 and mic-oriented games. Wario (touch training) , Mona (cute cuts) , Dr. Crygor (Slightly Unscrewed) , 
 Jimmy T. (Dance Club Rub) , Kat & Ana (Ninja Scribble) , Ashley (Total Drag) , Mike (Mic Rocking) , 
 and 9-Volt & 18-Volt (Retro Action) . Overall, a ton of fun.
  
  --Album -- (aka grid)
  Like in the original, there is a game grid with all the unlocked microgames to play to beat a pre-set 
 score on each one to earn a red rose. This is always a good chance to hone your touching skills 
 for the 5 remix-oriented sets. Once you have all the red roses, you get a prize (I think... sorry) . 
 Overall, a little tedious and boring at times.
  
  --Toy Room --
  32 random games, from Kitchen Timers to Grandma Simulators, this is randomness at its best. After 
 completing 30 of each character's microgames, you unlock a new game. This can also be done by beating 
 high-scores in some of these games. Overall, a ton of fun if you want to play with some custard.
 
  
  --Overall --
  Here comes the criticism and high points. After all, reviews are supposed to be unbiased!
  
 
  -Some toy room games are extremely boring and pointless, like a kitchen timer.
  -Agreeing with GameSpot, the game does rely too much on touch screen and microphone. If only they 
 could have found a way to combing d-pad, buttons, mic, and touch screen to vary the games some 
 more...
  -There are only 190 microgames... the original GBA version had 213!
  -A lottle short, I wish there were more unlockable games that had a point, like Pyoro T.
  
 
  My ratings look fanboy-ish, but the gameplay is nearly unlimited, trying to beat your high score 
 in all of the games. The graphics are varied all the way from an actual giraffe to an 'outline' 
 of a person. The sound is wonderful... random and upbeat, and gradually speeds up (really really 
 fast, might I add...) with your number of completed micorgames. I found it to be worth all $30 
 that I paid for it.
  
  Its another masterpiece from Nintendo. (Thanks for reading my long review) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memasterofvg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 12, 2005 7:10 pm PT
Review:  You know that you have a "twisted" feeling when you are "touched" in a video game. Those pun being 
 said. WarioWare Touched! is quite easily one of the best games currently on the DS, and though 
 it take around 4 hours to beat the game and unlock everything, this isn't something will let you 
 down.
  
  WarioWario Touched! is the third US installment of the critically acclaimed WarioWare series. The 
 Gamecube version was a bust. but the GBA installment was one of the most refreshing, fun, and manic 
 game out for the handheld. Wario returns for his chance to make more money in WarioWare Touched! 
 These games have always been about the minigames, which make up the entire game. That's right: 
 a completely minigame -oriented game. Or microgame$ as the game calls them. This time, it's simple- 
 Wario is walking down the street, until he drops his GBA and Gamecube into a hole. This angel guy 
 gives him back his two systems, and one completely new one with two screens (guess what that is.) 
 Wario figures out the Touch Screen, and starts the scam- his plan is simple: get people to make 
 microgame$ for him. Because there are two screens, it means double the money.
  
  Besides that, there really isn't a plot of which to speak. You just inexplicably beat one five 
 second microgame after another to achieve the high score. If you beat every character's microgames, 
 you beat the game. Depending on whether you skip the dialogue or not, you can beat the game in 
 around 30-60 minutes time. By that time, you'll only have unlocked a fraction of the microgames 
 an souveniers.
  
  I mentioned souveniers before. What is a souvenier? It's this little toy to keep you busy for about 
 2 minutes that you unlock from completing special tasks. There are around 35 of them, and they 
 aren't too difficult to unlock.
  
  The microgames themselves? There are 180 of them. It might no seem like such a large number, but 
 it really, really is.
  
  This is how it works: WarioWare Touched! takes advantage of just about every one of the DS's new 
 features. Meaning that: You'll only be using the touch screen and the microphone. In fact, the 
 A, B, X, and Y buttons have no use whatsoever, except a small part in one of the souveniers. But 
 it manages to never get old... almost. This means you'll be slicing, snipping, clicking, rubbing, 
 sliding, drawing, stretching, cutting, and breathing your way in the microgames. In the most bizarre 
 way imaginable. Meaning that you'll be snipping a line of mucus, putting out a fire with a peeing 
 statue, hook up a boy and girl while avoiding scissors, blowing into someone's ear to turn them 
 on, break marble to reaveal an ugly statue, and many others. There is so much variety and unpredictability 
 in this game that you'lkl go straight from lathering someone's hair to rubbing a genie's lamp.
 
  
  Of course, to support all of this bizarre gameplay, you'll need equally bizarre graphics. And equally 
 bizarre graphics they are. A blend of 2D sprites, 3D polygons, photos, cut out carboard, and colors 
 that a high person would say are bright are all present here. It truly has artistic merit, and 
 is one of the most original graphical style of 2005 so far. One complaint could be made that it 
 does not take advantage of the DS's capabilities.
  
  The same could not be said about sound. It is blurry, and really isn't nearly as slick as any other 
 of the game's aspects. It doesn't take advantage of the DS's new and improved surround sound system, 
 and sounds like more of a GBA game rather than a DS game. But the music is decidedly catchy, and 
 the present dialogue, though tere is little amound of it, is quite fun.
  
  WarioWare Touched! really comes down to how much you like it. It can last you dozens of hours, 
 or it can last you 10 minutes. Competing for high scores might no be especially for you, but it 
 adds an endless depth to the game, that it will remain playable forever. However, this, to me, 
 is a superb game that shouldn't be missed by any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: him42
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 6, 2005 8:21 am PT
Review:  WarioWare for GBA was a strange, instant classic. The new WarioWare: Touched! for the Nintendo 
 DS is just as strange and lots of fun. Using the touch pad, you play tiny minigames that last for 
 about 5 seconds on average which require you to touch something on the screen somewhere in some 
 way. It may sound dull or repedative, but it is so much fun that it just doesn't get old or boring. 
 The graphics are fairly basic most of the time, but the art is really good and funny. The random 
 images are garanteed to make you laugh from time to time. The sound effects and music in the game 
 work effectively, but get to be repetitive. It doesn't take many hours to fly through the "story" 
 of WarioWare: Touched!, but its ok because it is very replayable and there is a lot to unlock. 
 By getting highscores, you can unlock mini games or toys. The toys are usually pretty useless, 
 but some are fairly amusing, such as a parrot that will mock things that you say into the DS's 
 mic. Anyone with a DS should check out WarioWare: Touched! as soon as they get a chance, because 
 there is a lot of bizzare fun to be found! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aragon1000000
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 6, 2005 3:14 am PT
Review:  This game is both a waste of time and money. I decided not to listen to the ratings and reviews 
 for this game (such as I did with Champions: RTA) and bought it. Except this game turned out to be 
 exactly what people were saying it was, horribal. It's fun at first but after awhile you relise 
 it horribal. I think the biggest disapointment in this game is the fact that it takes only a couple 
 hours to beat. I think i beat it in less. Also the stupit microgames. I mean are all the warioware 
 games this bad? Here, why dont u read why I think this game deserves the rating I gave it:
  Gameplay: 5/10 The gameplay for this game is extremly boring. There isn't even much of a storyline 
 in this game. There are little storylines that go with each charactor but no overall storyline. 
 For example in Ashleys storyline, theres an alien that the pitchfork guy trys to catch but fails. 
 You dont see that alien again anywhere in the game. Also the fact that only the touch screen is 
 used messes up the gameplay alot. I want to be able to tap the A button now and then or the R button 
 but you can't. Last the stupit Mic microgames. You use the mic to play these but i didn't know 
 that. I bought the game not knowing you needed a mic so when i came across Mic's microgames i was 
 confused on what to do. I soon relised I had to blow into this little spot to plug in a mic.
  Graphics: 9/10 Possibaly the only good thing about WW: T is the graphics but think all graphics 
 these days seem to be pretty good.
  Sound: 6/10 What torture! All the stupit music you have to listen to while playing a game. For 
 example when i was trying to get Ashley's silver crown by unlocking all her microgames I had to 
 listen to the stupit song over and over and over again
  I do not recommend this game to any. Like I said before it is a waste of time and money. This was 
 my first warioware game and is probably going to be my last! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile711
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2005 12:20 am PT
Review:  WarioWare Inc first started off at a nice start on GBA. It was nice, considering the fact that 
 it was weirdly inspired and fun at the same time. How can anyone have so much fun on a game that's 
 only based on mini-puzzles and timed games? Simple, time. Adding that extra space in with time, 
 keeps you wanting to play more and unlocking new features to the game. Also, the time really pushes 
 your temperance and speedy instincts to the real test. WarioWare Inc. Touched succeeds in everything 
 and adds even more to it. You get over 100 mini-games in a box with the awesome gameplay with it 
 AND you can touch and talk to the game. It's amazing. Although it has its flaws, as in getting 
 old after a while (probably within a month) and the graphics are kinds of mediocre. It doesn't 
 exceed to the DS's standards but it packs a wild punch with gameplay, interactivity, and just plain 
 fun!... ity. Overall, it's simply awesome and a must-have for all DS users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: labouruk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2005 2:21 pm PT
Review:  It's not right that GS rated this game so low. WarioWare Touched is as good, if not better than 
 the previous GBA incarnations. Using the stylus instead of buttons is great, and it is implemented 
 superbly.
  
  There is a good variety of game play and each challenge is fun. With few games still out for the 
 DS, this game is a must buy.
  
  If you are unsure whether or not this is a game for you, my advice is: try out the WarioWare demo 
 at Best Buy or EBGames. It'll give you a good feel for the actual game. If you like it as much 
 as I did, you should not hesitate to pick the game up right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetriodDS123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 10, 2005 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware touched is a very good game for the Nintendo DS, it uses all the features the DS has 
 to offer. The mini games are very funny, you only have 5 seconds thought so it will need all of 
 your attention. The mini games are very interesting, and each character has there own type of games, 
 theres sports, classic games, microphone games, connection games. The mini games are so different 
 from anything i have ever seen. This Wario Ware also has a toy collection that add somthing to 
 the game because you have to collect them all. The toys can be very fun to even thought here so 
 simple. The game offers alot and all DS owners should get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidneyboy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2005 1:21 am PT
Review:  Wario Ware DS was one of those games that you just had to have, in my opinion. When you put everything 
 that has happened to the DS like not so many quality games and lots of titles in development that 
 people want but are not coming for like a year Wario Ware was a life saver. The DS needed a game 
 to come out that would keep people happy until the anticipated games came out and that is what, 
 in my opinion, Wario Ware did. The previous games, WarioWare Inc. Mega Microgames did very well 
 and the followup to it, the GCN title WarioWare Inc. Mega Party Games did not receive the great 
 review scores its processor did so it is interesting to see how this one will do.
  
  
  
  Basically, Wario is walking down the street and he chucks his GBA and what looks to be a GCN 
 computer type thing into a manhole. Then some old man pops out and asks if that stuff is Warios 
 and if the DS he found is his too. Wario lies and takes the whole thing including the DS and decides 
 if he can use two screens he can make twice the money, which I think is a stupid idea but then 
 again, Wario is a stupid guy. You also get each characters personal story/scenario whatever you 
 want to call it and when you beat his set of games you can see the epilogue or how it turns out. 
 These story lines and movies are very well done and well thought out but they do take a good deal 
 of time and since you cant skip them, it can be annoying sitting through them all. Also a nice 
 thing they did was they tied a few games into the storyline like in Warios story line he goes 
 to the dentist and while you are there you have to drill Warios teeth.
  
  
  
  In a game like this, the graphics do not really matter because when you think about it, you do 
 not have the time to look around and take in the scenery and drawings because if you do then you 
 will lose you microgame since each one lasts like five seconds. The style of graphics is also very 
 unique and even though the DS could probably do much more from a resolution standpoint, while you 
 are playing the game you do not think about that because everything seems to fit and what is there 
 is very well done. A lot of the game is drawings and they are all very drawn with great detail 
 but as some of the things are not drawings most things are and the things that arent are done 
 well too.
  
  
  
  The sound of the game is great and I think it is mostly because it is very fast paced during the 
 quick microgames and slowed down during a break time so that everything fits well. The sound is 
 something that you are going to have to stop and think about because if you are only breezing through 
 the microgames and trying to keep up with the hectic overall pace of the game, the sound will pass 
 you by and you will most likely not notice it. 
  
  
  
  This is just one of those games where the gameplay is the whole meat of the game and if the gameplay 
 is bad, the game goes down with it. Thankfully, the gameplay is great so the game keeps being great. 
 Basically, you choose somebodys microgame section and then you will play them. Unlike the previous 
 game, instead of dividing the games into sections by genre, this game separates the microgames 
 into touch screen categories. Like for instance, Kat and Anas games require drawing while Ashleys 
 games require dragging and Mikes games are all microphone and I really like the mic games because 
 Feel the Magic is the only other game that also uses the microphone. Also, the wackiness of the 
 games is still there and you will no doubt be chuckling at one time to another at the sheer zaniness 
 of some of the games. Like one is a racehorse and you have to keep on tapping his butt in order 
 to whip him to go faster. When you turn on the game for the first time it will ask you if you are 
 a lefty or right handed and tell the truth because it really does make a little bit of difference 
 if you choose the correct hand. You can always change what hand you use in the options menu. You 
 can also unlock all kinds of special toys that are a lot of fun which go from a yoyo, a ping-pong 
 table that you can play with your friends to a metronome like the kind you have on your piano and 
 a piano. As you can see the games are fun to play and fun to unlock because when you do you feel 
 a small sense of accomplishment. So, in short, the gameplay rules. The only problem is that the 
 game is way to short and if you play the single player for 2 or 3 hours straight, you will have 
 all of the characters. But not all of the microgames or all of the toys.
  
  
  
  You have to buy this game for these reasons.
  
  1. There is no other game like it currently 
 out for the DS.
  2. Other than Mario DS, there is not to many good games out for the DS.
  3. It is just plain old fun.
  
  So buy if you liked the first one buy if you like this kind 
 of game and finally, rent if you are not sure but I can almost guarantee it that you will love 
 it. But if you are an all day all night gamer than buy with caution because after 2 or 3 days you 
 may have fully beaten it. But even if you do fully beat it, you can always play a little bit with 
 your friends because they will lime the game as much as you do.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AquaMantor
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 25, 2005 5:09 am PT
Review:  Note: for my reviews, 5 is average.
  
  
  WarioWare has been known well by the fact that whoever developed it must have hit their head several 
 times when they were a small child, Touched! is no exception. In fact, it's weirder than it's ever 
 been now, after you play this game, weird will take a new meaning. You'll be screaming like scribbling 
 ninja girls who want their bannanas back (Don't look at me, I don't make this stuff up)
  
  the plot of WarioWare, as you can imagine, makes no sense and is almost creepy-strange at points. 
 Apparently, Wario finds a DS and starts making games for it. These games will be your power through 
 the world, for whatever reason. From shooting a giant chicken ship piloted by an evil jealous pop-star 
 (once again, I am 100% serious) to rocking it up as a cleaning kareoke robot, the games that Wario 
 develops will be your power to help the various weirdos that you play as. The games themselves, 
 as traditional, are very quick, and even more unpredictable. Each character has a certain kind 
 of way to play their games, slightly hindering the unpredictability. Even if you know you're supposed 
 to cut something, seeing snot dripping out of a woman's nose and the game simply telling you "SNIP" 
 is still a little confusing, unfortunately, there are a lot of instances like this, where you aren't 
 exactly clear what you're supposed to do. But it's okay, because that's part of the challenge. 
 Being able to react quickly and be ready for anything (seriously, ANYTHING) is what the game's 
 all about.
  
  Unfortunately, it's all over kind of fast, but the value is saved by the large amount of unlockables 
 and the urge to find all of the "Toys" which are unlockable items that range from arcade-style 
 games to simple gimmicks that are fun for a few seconds. You can arrange where you keeping them... adding 
 a small level of customization to what your room looks like.
  
  Overall, Touched! Is a bizzare expierience that is innovative and... well.. freaky. It is highly 
 recommended, like the other games in it's series, tp anyone who has ever wanted Mario Party on 
 every drug known to man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scurrydog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Well, maybe not worship but I get a kick out of watching others screw up, as I own them. :)
  
  WHAT WE GOT - 
  To me, this game is great to pick up, play for a little (maybe try for a 
 high score or just play around with some toys) , put back in your pocket and finish your Chemistry 
 benchmark test. Most of the time I cant make myself play this game for anymore than 30-40 minuets, 
 I just cant do it, I don't know why, but what does get my appeal for that great 29 minuets of play 
 is just the amount of craziness this game throws at you. 
  
  I see the main story as pretty screwy (in a good way) in itself if you actually pay attention too 
 it, and the game play just lathers it on after that, game after game of insanity. My friends that 
 watch me play are constantly either amazed or confused at how silly or "childish" this game is, 
 but inevitably fun. I can usually play this at school or on the bus going to my friends house. 
 I've played it one time in a truck, but don't -- too bumpy. 
  
  After you actually beat the main story mode game (which can be comparable to training) you can 
 go back and unlock all of the different games which you definatly missed your first time through. 
 This alone makes the game have a good replay value and lets you go back and enjoy those moments 
 of your first "spinning" game experience and the rest. After the story mode, you too get these 
 cute little "Bears" (pink, yellow, white) with Gold being my favorite if your just playing for 
 5 minuets.
  
  GAMEPLAY - 
  Pretty Solid, fluid, fast. I'm not going to complain about variety, cause theres only so much you 
 can do with the Stylis and microphone, but I'm sure theres a couple more things they could have 
 done that I cant really think about and the mimicking parrot really shows off the DS's Mic-voice 
 record funcion (joking) . Fast and hecktic can relate to any hardcore Warioware'er that tries to 
 get the high score, but you get a sense of very very very slow gameplay during the first 20 levels 
 of the stage. The story can be thought of as training missions and then go through again to unlock 
 all of the games, which wont take very long at all, but you have fun going through the games again 
 that you probably wont see much with the Bears (3 of them) . 
  
  GRAPHICS - 
  Cartooney, some real pictures, and some (some) 3d effects. All of it feels like Warioware, but 
 some of it could have been better, maybe more 3d. My only conern is that sometimes you will accedently 
 forget to look at the top screen cause it is rarely used, which is kinda good since your attention 
 will be on the bottom screen anyways. But my main complaint is nothing is animated, more or less 
 just frame by frame. Sure there is some animated small things, unlike say, feel the magic's "girl" 
 or even sprung. Its like all of the objects in this game are animated gif's, poor animated gif's, 
 even though they are pretty well drawn. In other words, its like Warioware on GBA with some (some) 
 3d.
  
  SOUND - 
  What can I say, the sound is "ok" and you even hear a word or two here and there, and alot of short 
 words like "Yes!" or "Alright!" or "Oooohhh" (Mona) . Ashley's' stage even includes full vocals 
 which is a Very nice change, seeing how the sound just replays every time after a micro-game is 
 completed (that just gets faster as you keep wining) where Ashley's doesn't. The sound effects 
 are pretty well chosen, and crisp, while a couple can be a little splotchy here and there. There 
 could have been maybe better music or more stages like Ashley's Mansion where the sound was very 
 bearable.
  
  VALUE-
  Very worth the money your gonna dish out for this $35 game, been a while since a game this good 
 has came out for DS and I'm very happy with it. With the DS's function of pausing the game when 
 you shut your DS, you'll never get caught with it from a Teacher or Principle and when the coast 
 is clear, just open it up again, one of my fav. features of the DS. Seeing how this is such a good 
 game and it's been a while since the last one, deffinatly get this game, its worth pretty much 
 all of your penny's. I tilt it so much because even though this game is a little less than I thought 
 it would be, I'm still very satisfied, if not more satisfied then what I thought it would be.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JWinner
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 24, 2005 1:51 am PT
Review:  WarioWare Touched! is one of the greatest minigame collection games yet. The first time I played 
 it, I had no idea it would be so great, it seemed too repetitive, just tapping or dragging the 
 stylus on the touch screen. I was proven wrong. The microgames are so varied that they definitely 
 keep your interest. I was a little worried when I heard the touch screen and microphone were the 
 only things used to control the game (except for pausing) , but I soon found out that it didn't 
 disappoint me at all. When you think about it, most consol games are basically the same when it 
 comes to pressing buttons, usually just tilting the control stick and tapping other buttons. It's 
 what on the screen that counts. When it comes to graphics, you might here that they are usually 
 just 2D drawings with occasional photo like pictures, but these unique graphics are really fun 
 and always extremely random (which is very very good) . For example, one microgame requires you 
 to use the built in microphone to blow away fog from a scene. One of the random scenes behind the 
 fog is a group of baboons bathing in a pond with a bear on the side. Each of most of the microgames 
 feature about three different graphic sets with the same objective. For example, in one microgame, 
 you are required to rotate a box type thing to free a cat, but if you play it again, it might be 
 a pig or mouse you're trying to rescue. I love this game and definitely thing all games should 
 play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swordslinger0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2005 9:31 pm PT
Review:  When WarioWare Inc: Mega MicroGame$ first appeared on the GBA in 2003, it seemed to come out of 
 no where. Mega MicroGame$ featured 5 second long mini games that came at you quickly and with increasing 
 speed, plus the game featured some of the weirdest Japanese humor seen in any game I've played 
 to date. Well now the next installment of the series has arrived, this time on the Nintendo DS, 
 but it still features all the weirdness of the first game. 
  
  Gameplay: Like the original WarioWare, WarioWare: Touched features mini games that last anywhere 
 from 3-5 seconds. The setup of the game goes as follows, Wario has enlisted a bunch of people he 
 knows to create mini games for his game company and as a game tester you must test the games out. 
 In order to play a certain person's mini games you just tap on the person and the games begin. 
 A character will usually have a theme set to their games, such as dragging, slicing, poking, etc. 
 Before each mini game begins a word will appear on the screen such as pop, or slice; thats the 
 only instruction you get on a mini game and you have to interpret it pretty quickly because as 
 previously stated you only have about 5 seconds for each game. 
  
  Seeing as the DS is still a new machine, Nintendo has decided to show off its dual screen, touch 
 screen, and microphone capabilities alone in this game, that means none of the face buttons are 
 ever used in the game (save for maybe one or two toys, which will be covered later on) . The entire 
 game is played using the touch screen and microphone, not to mention some games require you to 
 look at the top screen in order to know what to do. Although this may seem like it would make it 
 easier to figure out what to do when compared to the original, rest assured that you'll be challenged 
 just as much in this version.
  
  Aside from the main mini games, Touched also features unlockable toys that give you something to 
 mess around with when you are bored. The toys are unlockable in various ways, but you usually gain 
 them through playing the mini games of the different characters. I find that the toys are usually 
 only good for showing off the DS' capabilities as they are simple little things such as a yo yo 
 that you control with the stylus and using the microphone to blow bubbles. Luckily there are a 
 few toys that are just like the unlockable games from original, which require you to do a certain 
 task in order to rack up points, those are actually quite fun. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics in WarioWare: Touched are hard to judge, most of the mini games feature 
 simple GameBoy or GameBoy Advanced graphics, but they are intended to be that way. The simplicity 
 of the graphics just ads to the charm of the game, it shows that we really don't need high end 
 graphic engines in order to have fun with a game. But, there are a few mini games that feature 
 3D graphics that look pretty nice, and also there are some nice 3D effects used to show traveling 
 in certain cut scenes. Overall, the graphics won't disappoint, their simplicity is actually a nice 
 change from most of the games I've been seeing lately. 
  
  Sound: The sound in WarioWare: Touched isn't anything all that special, although it does a nice 
 job of adding to the quirkiness of the game. A of the couple of the tracks actually feature lyrics, 
 which is interesting to see on a handheld, though the songs are very kiddish. When playing the 
 mini games, the sound speeds up along with the speed of the games, this adds to the tension of 
 the situation and works at putting pressure on the player, which is a good thing. The sound pretty 
 much does a good job of making the game weird and fun, yet its nothing to memorable.
  
  WarioWare: Touched isn't a game with an epic storyline, orchestrated music, or revolutionary graphics, 
 its a game dedicated to bringing gamers fun and it achieves this greatly. The two biggest flaws 
 that I see with the game are it's length, it can be completed with in an hour to an hour and a 
 half although it is very re playable; and the fact that it features no multiplayer modes, which 
 would have been a great addition. With the current lack of DS games at the moment, picking this 
 up will really give you something to play on your new DS for a while to come, and I'd bet that 
 you'll pick this one up for a quick play even when the DS has a huge library of games to choose 
 from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalsonicgc2k4
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 4, 2005 9:34 am PT
Review:  In Spring 2003, we were intoduced to Wario Ware Inc., Mega Microgame$, and we loved it. It was 
 like nothing else, and never, ever seemed to get boring. Now it is Febuary 2005, and USA finally 
 gets a real Wario Ware sequel. The name is Wario Ware Touched!, and the system is the Nintendo 
 DS. 
  
  The main Idea of the game is the same. Little 5 second or less microgames pop up randomly, and 
 must be completed within the time limit, or you lose one of your four lives. But this time around, 
 the microgames are played using the touchscreen and Mic. Also, Instead of catagories like Sports, 
 and nature, the microgames are grouped together by what you do on the touchscreen to beat them. 
 They include Poking the screen, rubbing the screen, short cuts across the screen, moving the stylus 
 in circles, Dragging the items across the screen, drawing long lines, Blowing in the mic, and Classic 
 Nintendo based games. You can also choose mixes of different types of microgames if you don't feel 
 like sticking to one group of games. Playing these new types of microgames is very fun and unique. 
 They are more fun to play than the old button mashers from the first one. But they also make the 
 game easy and predictible. 
  
  You can also unlock Toys by getting high scores. These little toys are pretty useless and boring 
 for the most part. There are neat ones like a game where you bounce a litlle ball higher and higher 
 by drawing trampolines on the bottom screen. There also are toys that include: playable instruments, 
 2-player Ping pong, a turntable, virtual clackers, and my most favorite, the parrot. They make 
 use of the touchscreen and mic, but seem like last minute add ins that the developers added. 
 
  
  The graphics for Wario Ware Touched! are very similar to the originals. They pull off showing acts 
 like Moving a flashlight to show a hiding man, Shooting and breaking a brickwall, and circling 
 answers to a quiz with a unique style. But the problem is that, while the game's graphics are unique 
 compared to other games, most of the graphics could be handled on a GBA. But there are a handful 
 of neat 3D effects mixed in, which show off some of the DS's 3D capabilities.
  
  The Sound in Wario Ware Touched! is much better. The music is better and does a good job of using 
 the DS's incredible sound system. The sound effects in the minigames are goofy and realistic. When 
 you rub the screen to find a hidden coin, it actually sounds like a person scratching a scratch 
 card, and when you blow in the mic so a pinwheel will spin, it sounds like an actual pinwheel. 
 Also there is a toy which is a windchime, and if you blow in the mic, it sways and chimes. It chimes 
 louder and faster the more you blow. It is a great showoff of how great the mic and sound of the 
 DS can work together. 
  
  Now, one of the most important things about the original Wario Ware was the fact that it never 
 got boring, and had the ultimate replay value. This isn't so true about this title. The most disapointing 
 part of Wario Ware Touched! is that it is so easy to beat and unlock all the microgames. But getting 
 all the high scores and toys will take a good amount of hours. The game still doesn't seem to get 
 boring, but it doesn't seem to be as addictive as the first. It is still a great pick up and play 
 type of game, and is great to play in between releases of other DS and GBA titles.
  
  But one thought always pops into my head when I think of this game, and it is the fact that it 
 could have been as good as, if not better than the first. It is an amazing game as is, but a few 
 more months of work, It would have been the DS killer app that it was expected to be since E3 2004. 
 Now the microgames are top notch, and the only thing that could be improved is the amount, since 
 I just want more and more! But the toys flat out suck for the most part. I want more fun litttle 
 addictive games like the first Wario Ware offered. Maybe a full legnth versoin of Bowling played 
 like Mona's boss. Or a full version of Hogan's alley with The touchscreen used inplace of the light 
 gun. That stuff would be loads of fun compared to a kitchen timer, or a calculator. Also, a wireless 
 multiplayer would have rocked, but all we got was a fair match of pingpong using one DS like the 
 originals multiplayer.
  
  All in all, Wario Ware Touched! is a great game that shows off the DS's functions in a fun and 
 original way. Fans of the original will be pleased, and newcomers will love it. It will definally 
 keep you playing your DS until Wario Ware Twisted! comes out, and will not be forgotten. So go 
 pick it up if you haven't already, because you won't be able to keep your hands off it!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconclan
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  i picked this game up the day it came out really hoping for something good after the first wario 
 ware! When i got home and started playing i found myself wondering how i payed $35 for this over 
 rated tech demo of a game!
  
  First off, the game is alright, dont get me wrong, but when played through it in an hour or so 
 i was completely baffled at how horrid it really was, it seemed okay, but NO game should take under 
 3 hours to beat, well this one took about an hour and a half. High scores and all!
  
  The graphics are NOTHING special, compared to other ds game its a piece of crap! 
  
  Sound 
 is the same weird type things from the original, not particularly bad, but nothing special.
  
  the value is just not there...
  
  PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE! take my word for it, i dont care 
 if i do take a few blows from the sheep on this one, but there are so many better ds games! dont 
 get this, if your looking for a cheap hour of fun, play bomberman or something, at least it has 
 fun multiplayer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefferson908
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2005 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo's favorite antihero is back with a new collection of 200 more oddball mini -- games for 
 the DS. In Wario Ware Touched, the basic conceptual premise remains the same as those in previous 
 Wario Ware titles: You are bombarded with a multitude of fast -- paced, hilariously quirky mini -- games 
 designed to tap into your primordial subconsciousness and bring forth a plethora of actions guided 
 by only your initial primeval responses.
  
  While it shares the distinctive feel of the Wario Ware series -- simple yet bizarre mini -- games with 
 set time limits -- Wario Ware Touched brings a whole new dimension to the series due to the DS's 
 unique stylus and microphone functions. Touched exclusively utilizes the new control scheme, brining 
 an innovative and frantically amped up dimension to the Wario Ware franchise. Instead of traditionally 
 tapping buttons, Touched enables you to drag, rub, slash, tap, and write with the stylus pointer 
 to navigate the menagerie of mini -- game kookiness.
  
  Although a few of Touched's games are rehashes of the previous Wario Ware, Inc.: Mega MicroGame$ 
 titles, all of the games have been refreshingly tweaked for the new game controls. If you thought 
 the previous Wario Ware mini -- games were tough, you're in for a treat -- try figuring out whether 
 you should drag, poke, slash, or write in a three -- second instant. Additionally, Touched also utilizes 
 the microphone function for players to blow into for certain mini -- games.
  
  Each character has 21 mini -- games, and every character's games are united with a common game -- control 
 theme. Completing the initial character's challenges unlocks additional characters and mini -- game 
 mega mixes, which mix up the game -- control themes.
  
  Furthermore, the DS's duel -- screen format has been put to excellent use. In most mini -- games, the 
 top screen is used to give brief clues in the initial period of a game or to spawn an object, which 
 will fall into the bottom screen, where you must interact with it using the stylus. To date, Wario 
 Ware Touched is the only DS game that fully utilizes the DS's unique functions and is a must have 
 for all DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sniper99-
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 21, 2005 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Man oh man, Gamespot has gottne way off on this one! I love this game! The minigames are so addictive, 
 its crazy! I say better than Feel the Magic! The blowing games are a little wierd, but meh! Soo, 
 is this game longer than the last one? Nope, but it almost has as many microgames! Wait, almost 
 as many as the OLD one? Yes, you read right! It is a little weird, but I still love the ones they 
 got in this one! I love the style of this game, a little different from the last one. The games 
 are very zany! The thing that I find frusturating is when I'm playing a game that has a controller 
 on the bottom screen, and it tells you to poke the buttons instead of the real ones on your DS! 
 Anyway, I love the game, the Gnarly Mix is really fun to play! I think that they use all of the 
 DS' features nicely! Its amazing how accurate it is! But this game, so fun, I say best game on 
 DS so far! I also like the replayability, I love going back and trying to perfect my scores or 
 play the minigames sepeate! Lots of replayability! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynameisdumb
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2005 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games you either love or hate, depending if you enjoy doing things like picking 
 noses and urinating to put out fires. Apparently the reviewers at GS don't like it, and other sites 
 do. I'm here to send through the message that everyone should try this game. 
  The main menu consists of Wario alone at first, and a spaceship. Later, after completing more character's 
 minigames, you'll unlock more characters who arrive by taxi. From the main menu you can choose 
 five options. The first, games, let's you obviously play each character's games. The second, album, 
 let's you see which minigames you've unlocked and try them out over and over (you play the same 
 game and it gets harder progressively) . The fourth, options, let's you watch movies you've seen, 
 change hands (right or left) , erase your data so far, or go back to the title screen. After you 
 don't do anything for a while on the menu, your characters start to wander away. That's when you 
 click arrange (the fifth choice) to get them back in line. 
  Yes, I skipped the third choice. That is because it is a big part of the game and I figured it 
 needed a separate paragraph. This choice is the toy room. Throughout the game you will unlock small 
 little "toys" for doing certain things, like getting high scores. Most of the games are pointless 
 (one's a fruitcake that you can stretch in different directions and there's also a grandma that 
 gives "advice") , but there are some rare actual games (even with high scores!) that are great to 
 play, like one where you keep a blob going up as long as you can. Then there are the games that 
 are pointless, but still insanely fun (my fave is a harmonica where you use the mic and buttons 
 to play different notes) . Although most of these games won't keep you playing for years to come, 
 or even a few hours, they are great to try and they're all oddly satisfying.
  Now, to the important part, the games! There are 180 minigames (or microgames) total, which doesn't 
 seem like much but is actually a hefty amount. There are tons of variety in them from chopping 
 vegetables, to stretching an elephant's nose, to playing a saxophone (with the mic) , to numerous 
 "Old school" games, like pulling metroids off Samus to beating up koopas in Mario World. That sound 
 good and well, but here's the thing. Every microgame is controlled with the stylus or mic. In fact, 
 the only use for your gb buttons is pressing up to pause. Other than that they are totally unresponsive. 
 People have been complaing about how there are no good games using the DS innovative features, 
 weeeeeelll here it is. 
  As for the graphics and sound, they are good but not exceptional. The only thing holding the graphics 
 above a 5 is the unique blend of photo realism and cartoony graphics. Sometime both will be in 
 the same microgame, and overall it just makes a unique and never before used graphics scheme. It 
 seems weird at first, but grows on you. 
  For the sound it's made up of the common GBA beeps and boops, but utilizes the DS sound capabilites 
 to push it just a bit further. This game just somehow sounds better than the average GBA or DS 
 game, and includes small voice acting and even some (very weird, I might add) songs sung by characters. 
 Overall though it wasn't up to par with the rest of the attributes, so 7 seemed right.
  Why a high value? You will be playing this game for years to come in 5 to 10 minute sessions. The 
 only reason the value isn't a perfect 10 (which I'm sure many give it) is because the main game 
 takes about an hour to complete. Sure, it has like a bazillion of unlockables, high scores to beat, 
 etc. after you complete the main game. It's just that I know many won't feel compelled to do all 
 that stuff like I am. Be warned.
  Overall I give it a 9.4. I know it seems high for a handheld game and especially a DS game, but 
 I think it is very underrated. I know everyone should at least try it, maybe at a friend's or in 
 a store. That has to be the selling point. If for some reason you can't try it somewhere, then 
 I recommend it to people who like what they've heard so far in the review. If you didn't then don't 
 buy it. It's that obvious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEWINDWAKER10
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 21, 2005 4:47 am PT
Review:  Of all the titles announced at E3 2004 for the Nintendo DS, Wario Ware Touched! was one, if not 
 the most anticipated game. One of the best games for the GBA, now with a whole new way to play. 
 There are no D Pad games, and you dont use any of the buttons. The game is entirely touch-based, 
 and entirely new. Although, the game is rather short, and lacks a lot of variety, which the Wario 
 Ware series is built on.
  
  First off, if youre looking for a great game for the DS, Wario Ware fits perfectly. The same concept 
 applies from the first game. You are given 5 second microgames that you must complete within those 
 five seconds. Each character has a certain genre of microgame, whether it be rubbing, dragging, 
 microphone or one of the many other styles. You are then barraged with numerous microgames until 
 you reach the boss stage, where time is not a factor, but rather patience or difficulty. You could 
 be navigating a dandelion seed to land while avoiding numerous animals, or navigating through someones 
 nostrils to find the hidden treasure.
  
  Of course, one of Wario Wares best qualities is the quickness and randomness of the microgames. 
 One minute, you find yourself cutting fruit, and the next, youre writing Japanese calligraphy. 
 Its very eccentric, but also very fun. Youre kept to certain categories throughout the game with 
 certain characters that fit with their personality. For example, you play with a witch-like gothic 
 girl whose style of microgame is drag, because to her, Lifes a Drag. The doesnt have a story, 
 but somewhat of short chapters for each character, consisting of a prologue that explains to some 
 degree who they are, microgames to fill in the middle, and a boss stage to wrap it all up. 
  
  The worst thing about Touched, is that the game lacks variety. You find yourself doing a lot 
 of the same thing the majority of the time. A great example is the Rock the Mic mini-games. You 
 do nothing but blow into the microphone. Sometimes you have to wait to blow, but in the end, you 
 did the exact same thing that you did in the last microgame. This is not only true for Mike, but 
 for everyone else as well. Youre either spinning in every game, dragging, tapping or any other 
 motion known with a stylus. The Wario Ware games were built on variety, which made them one of 
 the most original games on the GBA, or any console for that matter. But sadly, Touched lacks what 
 made it such a defining series.
  Of course, this doesnt mean Wario Ware is a bad game, but it just lacks variety. 
  
  Although, 
 Touched is a rather short game. You can beat the game in one sitting, and get the record on everyones 
 story before your DSs battery runs out. But, Touched has replay value. You can play each game 
 over and over, and it never gets boring. After you play a mini-game, lose or win, you unlock it 
 in the Album mode, which lets you play the microgame as many times as you want, and gives you a 
 goal to reach for. You play up to a certain amount of times, then that game is rosed. It keeps 
 getting faster and faster until you mess up three times. The game goes through 3 different difficulty 
 levels in easiest to hardest order. Of course, the human body can only comprehend things to a certain 
 speed, and the same is said about Touched. Eventually, the game reaches a point where it can go 
 no faster, and getting the record up to 999 is no problem. Although, some games are nearly impossible 
 to beat at certain speeds, such as popping numerous balloons before 3 seconds is over.
  
  Although variety lacks, the game presents them in many different ways. One Zelda themed games has 
 you poking fairies, and another has you getting coins from Mario-styled levels. Although youre 
 still doing the same thing, its very eccentric and fun. Same is true for every game. Its been 
 so colored up, that you almost forget the lack of variety.
  
  Of course, if you get sick of the microgames, Touched has a whole slew of little extras to be unlocked. 
 For those who played the first Wario Ware for GBA, Pyoro is back, and is playable when you beat 
 every single microgame. Of course, you can earn other games like Ping-Pong, or even some fun applications 
 that take advantage of the DSs many qualities. For example, you can blow a little ball out of 
 a pipe using the microphone. Although, some of these games have a lasting value of about five seconds, 
 some are really run to play, and Ping-Pong even adds a multiplayer aspect.
  
  Wario Ware still looks the same. Its still very indifferent and isnt all that out of the ordinary. 
 Its still all 2D, with the exception of a few microgames, which still dont show the full potential 
 of the Nintendo DS. The music isnt much to note either. It only speeds up as you progress through 
 the level. Nothing to really write home about.
  
  All in all, Wario Ware Touched relies to heavily on the touch screen. None of the games use the 
 buttons of the DS. Although it lacks variety, it has a lot of variety, Touched is a great game 
 and is truly the DSs first killer app.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koomaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2005 11:59 pm PT
Review:  
  Wario Ware Touched is an ADD inspired festival of mini-games that are quirky and off the wall but 
 ends much too quickly for it's own good. I sat down and played through the entire game in one sitting 
 - with only 2 levels tripping me up along the way.
  
  But while this is somewhat disheartening; you'll still spend twice that amount of time unlocking 
 all the mini-games the game has to offer. If you've played the previous titles, the games are pretty 
 much standard Wario fare - with odd graphics, and tasks that are simple, but then quickly ramp 
 up the difficulty and speed. The big difference here is that the mini-games make exclusive use of 
 the DS stylus and built in microphone.
  
  Tap here, draw a line there, scribble this, push that. The mini-games are broken up by character 
 and each character has you doing a specific action using the stylus. Or in the case of the Kareoke 
 Robot Mike, you'll be using the microphone. This is truely what set's Touched apart from it's counterparts 
 in that while pushing a button may be easy - actually drawing and making use of the stylus within 
 5 seconds becomes more challenging.
  
  The games you use the microphone on tend to be even funnier just for the purpose that the game 
 randomly throw in "Shuuuuu" a game where you have to be absolutely quiet. The problem is that you 
 usually have a mouth full of air waiting for the next mini-game to start up; and when "Shuuuuu" 
 comes up, there are funny little dudes strangely walking across a tightrope. Be careful not to 
 laugh with your mouth full of air or they all go blowing off the mountain. It's a nice little bit 
 of difficulty that is ingeniously thrown into the mix.
  
  Another little oddity is the fact that you can earn toys for completing certain tasks within the 
 game. The toys range from; "Forgettable" such as the Calculator, to "Addicting" such as the Mini-Piano. 
 I personally like whipping out my DS just to play a little tune for my friends.
  
  Another fun toy I've got to mention is the talking parrot. While Mike's mini-games use the microphone 
 - all you have to do is blow into it to play. But the parrot will actually record what you say 
 and play it back in it's own voice. It can remember up to 3 or 4 short phrases and then says them 
 randomly. Being of little maturity it didn't take long for me to start cursing at the parrot and 
 letting it learn my name just so I could hear it insult me. Of course I also got it to say "I Love 
 You" to one of my friends which is admittedly pretty sweet.
  
  This is of course just the top of the iceberg on the weird mini-games and toys that Wario Ware 
 Touched has to offer. If you've got a DS I'd highly recommend getting this game as it really makes 
 use of the stylus and shows the potential the DS has instore. Above all the game is just fun; even 
 if it is a bit short, I believe it has a good amount of replayability.
  
  If you've enjoyed previous Wario Ware titles, you'd be remiss to miss out on this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wood_Spirit
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 18, 2005 10:20 pm PT
Review:  WarioWare Inc. was a fantastic game on the GameBoy Advance, and now we have a similar version on 
 the Nintendo DS. This time around, you get to use the touch screen to play, and thats just about 
 all you use. That is where WarioWare: Touched fails. The petty storyline is minimal, and really 
 has nothing to do with the mini-games, while the mini-games themselves feel a tad rushed. However, 
 180 micro games leaves a lot of variety. Popping bubble wrap, uniting a fuse with fire to set off 
 a bomb, connecting and drawing lines, and even blowing into the microphone are some of the things 
 you can do in WarioWare: Touched.
  
  The graphics are hardly anything that take advantage of the DS's hardware capabilities. A good 
 number of the mini-games were taken out of the GBA version, and stuck on the DS with a touch screen 
 feature that really aren't worthwhile. Some games actually have you use the touch screen to tap 
 a NES controller instead of have you use the DS's buttons. This is quite acceptable seeing as it 
 keeps the flow of the game going, but it sounds funner to have to switch between control modes 
 constantly without warning, does it not? Make sure not to lose all your lives, or you'll have to 
 start the particular mission over. The mini-games are all under 5 seconds, and really simplistic. 
 Nothing overly hard here. After you've gotten a certain number of points, you will face off with 
 a boss which is always exciting and creates some varied gameplay.
  
  The sound isn't anything special. The tunes aren't going to leave you humming and whistling or 
 anything, but as you play through more of the micro-games, the music speeds up, making the faced 
 paced action more intense.
  
  Most of the micro-games are very similar, which can get really tedious over time. WarioWare: Touched 
 basically forces you to use the touch screen when Nintendo could have easily incorperated button 
 use, which makes this game feel rushed. I wouldn't say buy this game, instead, just rent it and 
 beat it over the weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VideoGamesDevil
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 18, 2005 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This is the game to show the whole world how Nintendo revolutionized our gaming world with the 
 DS!
  
  If you want to impress yourself, before anyone else, then this is the game to buy and play. It 
 is so addictive that I cannot get my hands off it. I even started playing WarioWare Inc.: Mega 
 MicroGame$ again just to remember old days and I found out that I have to have these two games 
 in my DS at the same time to satisfy myself. These games are completely different. The only two 
 similarities I have found are that they are so addictive and well made, and they make me enjoy 
 playing and competing against myself and others.
  
  I am waiting for the WarioWare: Twisted! to add more fun to the equation!
  
  Enjoy playing 
 this game and do not believe any harsh reviews you read about it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobophobic12
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2005 3:20 am PT
Review:  Since Wario Ware touched was announced, many people said it would be the perfect game for the DS, 
 and they were rite. The mix of a touch screen, humor, gameplay, and countless hours of replay value 
 make it a great game. There are different sections of games in wario ware, such as classic nintendo, 
 rubbing, spinning, and using the microphone. Playing wario ware with a touch screen is much funner 
 than playing it with a d-pad and buttons. The gameplay is almost perfect, but it can be awkward 
 at times. The graphics vary, and its hard to say if they are good or bad, but the mix of graphics 
 is great for the game. The music in the game is very odd and funny, which is again, great for the 
 game. There are very few problems with the game, one being it could be longer. It definately seems 
 like there were more games in the GBA version. There could have also been some better unlockables, 
 more games, not cooking timers. So in conclusion, Wario ware touched would be a great game to add 
 to your DS game library and you should definately go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenCow
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 17, 2005 4:20 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  10
  I give it a perfect because nothing is wrong about it. Using the touchscreen and the microphone 
 is just so much fun and it is a fun break from using buttons.
  
  Graphics
  8
  The graphics are lackluster and many of them could be achieved on GBA. I could give it less, but 
 they were smart and realized you don't need graphics for the great gameplay because great graphics 
 could have interfered with the gameplay. So I didn't penalize for it.
  
  Sound:
  10
  Songs are very cool and make you just ready for the fast pace excitement. When you get going far 
 into certain peoples minigames, and the speed is picking up, the music makes you very excited and 
 on top of the game because how fast the tempo goes.
  
  Value:
  8
  It is a great buy for your money, but the game itself is very short. I finished it in one evening. 
 But, it has an amazing replay value because the games are so fun, and you are compelled to beat 
 your scores on each character. Also, many toys are thrown into the game which make the fun last 
 forever: like a harmonica, 2 player ping-pong, and you can play with custard etc....
  
  I believe this is a must have for all DS owners just because it is do fun. If you are looking for 
 a real hard challenge, this won't please you. But, if you want to have a great time playing video 
 games get it. Wonderful game, get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laonious
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 16, 2005 11:45 pm PT
Review:  I've never played WarioWare, and, I admit, I mainly got Touched because it was the first real DS 
 game in quite a while. I'd heard it was insanely random, so I wasn't sure what to expect. The intro 
 movies were boring. But then I got to the gameplay. If you've never done it, there's no real way 
 to describe it that does it justice. A series of 10 - 20 "microgames," each less than five seconds 
 long, are played in rapid succession, faster and faster. They test you control of the touchscreen 
 to the fullest, and you'll find yourself rubbing, drawing, rotating, and laughing the whole time. 
 The games are widely varied, and if you find yourself getting bored, simply play a different character 
 with their selection of games, and you'll quickly be playing something new. The game hasn't gotten 
 old yet, and is still a blast to play. Even if you think you're above such random nonsense, like 
 unrolling toilet paper, squeezing ketchup, punching people, etc., you'll soon immerse yourself 
 in the experience, and find it immensely enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jumpin21
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 16, 2005 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Wario Ware DS is one of the best if not THE best DS game yet, it's much better than feel the magic.. each 
 mini-game is as fun as the next one, what I did not like though is the "no time limit boss statges", 
 they were WAY to easy and took 10 seconds to complete. The graphics in this game are varied, some 
 have a cool 3-D effect, and you can turn stuff in 360 degree angles. The audio in this game is 
 good, but I would have liked to see more mini-game stages with music that had lyrics, like Mikes 
 miciophone stages. Overall Wario Ware: Touched! is the best DS game to come out yet, and will remain 
 one of the best until another game like this comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XtremeDSfan24
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 16, 2005 1:08 am PT
Review:  180 new minigames fresh out of the Wario Ware factory in Wario Ware Inc: Touched. This intire game 
 is used only with the touch screen, A B Y X L R Start and Select and not used, only to pause. All 
 the old characters are back along with new one's like Mona's gutair rival, Ashly the creepy goth 
 girl, Jimmy T.'s mom, dad, sis, and bro, Mike the robot, and even 9-Volts older bro, 18-Volt. 180 
 games just zoom by. This game is quick to beat but you can litterally play this game for monthes 
 trying to beat your high scrore and unlock new and secret games. 
  Most of the games are random but oh so very fun. Some ex: of minigames would be unrolling a roll 
 of toiliet paper (when it's beaten it says "Save the trees") , cutting a bomb wire, matching faces, 
 undressing a man (don't worry, he has his swim suit under his clothes) , Petting a dog (cat too) , 
 Jamming on gutair, Blowing up a balloon (with the mic) , playing the piano, Keeping Metroids off 
 Samus, Grabing Mario coins, defeating Mario enimies, catching farries in Zelda, Doing chin-ups, 
 Drawing, painting, and SOOOO much more. If you own a DS then you NEED this game. It's my favorite 
 DS game (even above Mario 64 DS) . If you're not sure then rent it and you'll relize how fun it 
 trully is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: role_model4
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2005 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Wario is back in from the very popular Warioware inc. on GBA and GC on the new DS as Warioware 
 Touched! It promises what it says, You will touch the game in almost all of the 180 completely 
 new 5 second mini-games behind a somewhat faint storyline. Wario needs to make money so what does 
 he do? Ofcourse launchs a get-rich-quick scheme with a whole lot of playable minigames. In these 
 minigames, you won't use D-pad or any buttons whatsoever. Your controls are your stylus and your 
 built-in mic. The mini-games are very creative and very wierd (are we surprised?) . You will be doing 
 missions such as cutting up vegetables to making someone sneeze to catching a goose in a cage. 
 You will also get special cameos like Samus and Mario himself. Another fun feature is once you've 
 done the minigames well enough, you'll have to face a boss but not a big monster. A minigame boss 
 such as bowling. once you've unlocked the boss minigame, you can play it as much as you want. Overall 
 this game is great especially if you love to touch. Nintendo does it again with a creative, fun, 
 dare I say, party game that people of all ages will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweatman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2005 11:13 am PT
Review:  WarioWare [mega microgames] for GBA is my favourite, spending hours playing this game. Feel the 
 Magic is a good game, but a bit stupid, also, WarioWare Twisted! which I have a JP version is a 
 great tilt-party game, but I stick to the original WarioWare. WarioWare Touched is an outstanding 
 game on DS! You'll have to use to things, a stylus and a microphone. Same story, with all new characters 
 like 18-Volt, Ashley, Mike, WarioMan, Jimmy's bro and sis. But the graphics of this game are a 
 lil-disturb. Some members wants Ashley's Lyric sounds (Also I need to know) , but the audio is a 
 bit... uh... disturbing. Anyway, you people need to but this game. Also, some of you (Including 
 me) will have bit of problems with Mike's microgames and some from 9-Volt... Sorry for my english 
 everyone...
  
  Thank for your reading... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
