-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Winning Eleven: Pro Evolution Soccer 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/winningeleven10/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Accessible gameplay, works well in short bursts.
 nice multiplayer options, including Wi-Fi.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Simplistic controls.
 artificial intelligence shows a number of weaknesses.
 lacks depth in single-player game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 6.3, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 70 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: KCET
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Feb 6, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Konami's first attempt at bringing the seminal series to the DS may not appeal to serious soccer 
 fans, but it has some neat features and can be fun in short bursts. 

  While Pro Evolution Soccer is generally known for its realism and attention to detail on the pitch, 
 Konami's first foray for this franchise into the Nintendo DS market has different priorities. These 
 priorities include the need to create a game that not only works within the technical limitations 
 of the DS but also takes advantage of the platform's unique features. The result is a game that's 
 generally uncomplicated to play: While veterans of the series might find it basic, it's accessible 
 and fun.  

          The action onscreen is fun but pretty basic.     

  You can choose to play an exhibition match as and against any of 57 national teams, the 10 licensed 
 club teams, or Konami's age-old original team. On top of those options, there's a world tour mode, 
 which forms the backbone of the single-player game, a simple cup competition, and some multiplayer 
 modes. There are licensed players on a few of the teams, and assuming you can actually work out 
 who the players are supposed to be, it is possible to edit names and a handful of statistics.  
 

  The world tour mode assigns you the challenge of beating every national team in the game and sets 
 you up with Konami's original team, which consists of the franchise's now-classic made-up players, 
 including Ivarov, Ceciu, and Huylens. The opposition teams are split up into 10 groups, ranked 
 in order of quality, and you unlock the next group once you've beaten the first, and so on.  

 
  Each time you defeat a team, you're rewarded with some silver coins, and throughout the tour, 
 you'll win a handful of gold coins as you hit various milestones. These can be spent in the "gacha 
 get," a virtual version of the toy dispenser commonly found in Japan. You drag a coin into the 
 slot, turn a lever, and an egg containing a player drops out. The player that drops out is randomly 
 chosen from any of the teams you've beaten so far, and gold coins are more likely to yield a star 
 player than silver ones. Then, you have the opportunity to integrate the new player into your team, 
 and in that way, you're able to gradually improve your squad over time.  

  The options for each match are pretty basic and are limited to the kit colours (combinations of 
 home or away) and the game level (easy, normal, or difficult) . There are no weather effects or 
 time-of-day options, and all games take place at a single generic stadium. From there you're taken 
 to the formation settings screen, where you can choose from a handful of popular options or micromanage 
 the positions and mentalities of each player on the pitch, as well as select the set-piece takers. 
 There's also an "autosort" button that will automatically select the best players from your squad 
 to fit your formation, which is based on quality and form. Your team's formation settings can have 
 an impact on the way the game plays out, although in reality, the effects are limited. For example, 
 if you choose to play three in attack, you will find that on occasion you'll be overwhelmed in 
 other areas. But if you have only a single striker up front, you could find penetrating the opponent's 
 defense slightly more difficult.  

  However, those examples are very general. Even if you extensively tweak all of the other options, 
 it seems to bear little fruit because most of the time the matches play out in remarkably similar 
 ways. This is mainly down to the limited controls available on the DS, which yield a limited number 
 of options for effectively playing the ball.  

          A handful of teams in the game are licensed, but there's just a single stadium.     

 
  Movement is controlled with the D pad, while the left shoulder button cycles through player selection 
 and the right shoulder button makes the player sprint. The remaining face buttons take care of 
 the passing, tackling, and shooting options, while there are a couple of combinations that yield 
 a fake shot or lofted through ball.  

  The touch screen isn't used to control players, although you can switch between attacking and defensive 
 stances with it. You can also use it to display either your team's formation, with information 
 on each player's energy levels, or a large version of the minimap, which on the top screen is so 
 small that it's almost useless.  

  In theory, the controls fulfill all of the moves you'd expect to be able to execute, but in practice, 
 it's quickly evident that there's little by way of finesse in the system. Sometimes the buttons 
 don't respond as quickly as you'd like, and directional accuracy can be difficult on the small 
 D pad. To compensate for those limitations, Konami has had to make some concessions within the 
 game to make it playable, and these concessions make the game feel simplistic.  

  For example, if you come too close to an opposition player, you're almost certain to lose the ball. 
 But at times, the artificial intelligence controlling those players has an alarming tendency to 
 leave big gaps between the players through which you can run. There are also some gameplay quirks 
 that pop up with some regularity. The through ball pass is incredibly inconsistent, at times playing 
 the ball in front of your intended target, but often selecting a player on the other side of the 
 pitch instead, who is neither closer nor has a remote chance of getting the ball before it's intercepted. 

  On top of that, the ball never stops once it's passed, so you'll find the ball going out of play 
 a lot, even though the pass itself should have been short and simple. And if you do get the ball 
 to a striker, almost any shot, from any player, will beat the keeper if it's hit from inside the 
 box. Even long shots, providing they're on target, have a great chance of hitting the back of the 
 net, and netting upward of six or seven goals in a five-minute game is easily possible.  

  These idiosyncrasies can become frustrating in the long term, but if you take the game in shorter 
 bursts, something the platform is designed to do, you won't notice them as much. Getting through 
 the world tour and its bonus group at the end can take upward of six hours, and with the cup, training, 
 and exhibition options, there's plenty of action to enjoy in the single-player modes.  

  But there are also some nice multiplayer options in the game, including local wireless matches, 
 the ability to take on gamers across Nintendo's Wi-Fi network. In particular, this last option, 
 which requires access to a wireless Internet connection, adds a lot to the game in terms of appeal 
 because playing against human opposition is more entertaining than the stilted AI teams.  

  In practice, these online games are easy to set up and run smoothly. There is a touch of slowdown 
 on occasion, but nothing that really affects gameplay. It's also impossible for anybody to cheat 
 by disconnecting from the match, as even if you shut the DS, the game continues without you. This 
 helps you keep an honest track of your performance online, as your results tally is recorded on 
 your game card, and you can search specifically for matches against players of a similar level. 

          You can compare your team's strengths with your opponent's before the match.     

  
 Visually, the game is no graphical powerhouse, but there's nothing offensive about it, and certainly 
 the graphics don't get in the way of enjoying the game. There is a bit of an issue with slowdown 
 when there are too many players onscreen, which happens virtually every time there's a corner kick, 
 but again, it's not a major problem.  

  The sound effects in the game are also pretty basic, with crowd sounds that rise and fall depending 
 on where the ball is in play. The sample lengths, especially at the more excited end of the scale, 
 are pretty short, and the result is an irritating noise that repeats over and over. On a lighter 
 note, when a goal is scored, you're treated to a scratchy piece of commentary, which sounds remarkably 
 like an announcer from the 1966 World Cup final. Somehow we're not sure that was intentional. Aside 
 from that, there's very little in the way of sound effects, although there are a few nice, pumping 
 music tracks to accompany the different setup screens.  

  Overall, the Nintendo DS version of Pro Evolution Soccer 2007 isn't likely to be the kind of game 
 that will appeal to dedicated soccer gamers, but newcomers shouldn't have too much trouble coming 
 to grips with it. It won't hook you for a long time, but it does offer a portable, entertaining 
 soccer game. And while there's enough single-player content to get through in a modest amount of 
 time, there's a lot more enjoyment to be had if you've got access to a wireless Internet connection. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PlyrChicho
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  i was hopping a really good football game... or like you north americans call it soccer , but it's 
 one of the worst football games i ever played... i dont know if some of you remember a SNES game 
 call International Superstar Soccer Deluxe!!.. for me is the best soccer game ever, it doesnt have 
 ligue teams, just national teams, brazil, mexico, argentina, usa, etc, etc, but the game was MAGIC, 
 totally awesome, it has rain, snow, sunny, night, afternoon, and like 10 or 15 stadiums, the most 
 fun training sesions ever they make you do a lot of things to really improve your skills, you can 
 actually change your squad uniform color, with the colors that you want, not even FIFA has that, 
 it was... incredible, i hope to see it on wii virtual console, anyway this was a KONAMI game, and 
 it was the precursor of the pro evolution and winning eleven series, so when i see this DS graphics 
 i was praying that it has the same graphics, style, and options that the SNES game has, but no, 
 one stadium, ONE F &middot;$%&amp;/ STADIUM, NO RAIN OR SNOW, JUST 4 OR 5 COLOR FOR YOUR ORIGINAL 
 TEAM, AND ALL THE PLAYERS LOOK LIKE EACH OTHER IT JUST CHANGE THE COLOR OF THE PLAYER, BUT THE 
 WORST PART (AND WHY I BOUGHT IT) THE WI-FI, ohhh dear god!!!! why why why!!!... its  
 the worst wi-fi game on DS till now, i hope they improve the 2008 game, or they better leave the 
 DS soccer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noyon786
Rating: 7
Date: May 11, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  pro evolution soccer has been very succesful on consoles for the past years so its not a suprise 
 that they would start devoloping for the handhelds, they already showed what they can do on the 
 psp and now they give a try on the nintendo ds.
  
  gameplay: pro evo ds is a normal football (soocer whateva) game mostly resembling the iss (international 
 superstar soccer) series though that doesnt seem like a bad thing, the game does runs slower than 
 the classic iss series and it doesnt really play as well but it still has that addictive feature 
 that will have you come back and play for a very long time.
  
  WIFI!!! yes finally a footie game that has wifi this is the feature that has been long awaited 
 in the fifa ds series. though there is the occasional lag this does seem like a pretty good reason 
 to get this game and if your bored playing the other world tour (sort of like marster league but 
 with country and your original team which you can customise with player) and not for getting the 
 konami cup mode (self explanatory) there is always wifi for your spare time.
  
  design: the graphics on the ds arent as powerful as the psp's and it shows on pro evo ds instead 
 of going for the fifa look they went for the classic iss look this aint much of a bad thing but 
 they could of done better.
  
  all in all pro evolution soccer ds is a well rounded football game for the ds with great lasting 
 value i would recommend it to any person who has a ds and a looking for a good ds game. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juansouto
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 22, 2007 3:08 am PT
Review:  How could they do this? It looks like it was done in 2 weeks!!
  The graphics are bad (horrible in corners and free throws) . The sound, well there is almost no 
 sound (pathetic) . About gameplay... it is harder than it should moving not straight forward. The 
 editing options aren&acute; t enough, there are only 5 different shirts for your team and you can&acute; t 
 create new players. It feels like Konami Cup and the main mode are (again) not enough.
  Besides all these crap you can play for an hour and enjoy the experience; then, turn it off and 
 wait until you have rested enough to play it again.
  
  What should have been a great soccer game turned out to be a mediocre one. I don't think is worth 
 the price, better to rent it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
