-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WordJong
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/wordjong/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Scrabble-style mahjong is pleasantly addictive.
 Three different play modes, including an online battle mode.
 Touch-screen controls are intuitive and responsive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Graphics and audio are extremely plain.
 No one is ever online to play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 57 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Destineer
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Nov 16, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Mahjong plus Scrabble equals fun for vocabulary buffs. 

  Considering that you can play WordJong for free at various Web sites, or for just a few bucks on 
 your cell phone, the Nintendo DS rendition of it had better offer something beyond portability 
 to justify the $20 price tag. The good news is, it does. In addition to packaging two of the most 
 popular variations of this addictive brain teaser together on a single cartridge, Destineer and 
 Magellan Interactive have also included a battle mode that lets you test your word-making skills 
 against live opponents using Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connect service.  

  If you're not already familiar with WordJong, the concept is easy enough to grasp: It's basically 
 mahjong meets Scrabble. You're given a mountain of tiles and, starting at the top, you have to 
 clear away the mountain a few tiles at a time. However, instead of lifting away matching pairs 
 of tiles, you lift away tiles by forming words out of the letters printed on them. For example, 
 if you picked up the tiles to spell "CHIMP," they'd be removed from the pile. You can't grab tiles 
 that are boxed in or buried by other tiles, so there's some challenge involved in making words 
 out of what you're given to work with.  

           WordJong is pleasantly addictive, kind of like that song 'Never Gonna Give You Up' by 
 Rick Astley.      

  One of the reasons that WordJong is so addictive is that it employs a scoring system that rewards 
 you for stringing together complicated or lengthy words. The letter tiles are assigned point values, 
 just like the tiles in Scrabble, and you get bonuses for words that contain uncommon letters like 
 Z, V, or the "Qu" combination. You also earn extra points when a word is between six and nine letters 
 (the maximum length) . So, the question is, do you play it safe and go for easy four-letter words, 
 or do you go for the big points and risk being unable to complete the puzzle because you ran out 
 of vowels?  

  Over the years, WordJong has evolved into two distinct variations for Web and cellphone platforms. 
 The Nintendo DS cartridge includes both of them. From the Web comes the daily puzzle mode, which 
 incorporates wild tiles into the pile and rewards you with a bomb whenever you produce a word that's 
 at least five letters long. The calendar-style menu gives you more than 700 different puzzle layouts 
 to pick from, and each puzzle has a predefined top score that you're supposed to beat. Meanwhile, 
 the cell phone platform's contribution is the temple challenge mode. The piles are larger and randomly 
 generated, there are no bombs, and the wild tiles have been replaced by green multiplier tiles 
 that really cause scores to skyrocket. Unlike the daily mode, which is just a bunch of one-offs, 
 the temple challenge mode keeps giving you newer and tougher piles as you grow in rank, and it 
 records your cumulative progress.  

  WordJong DS also includes a one-on-one battle mode that lets you match wits and scores against 
 the CPU or other living, breathing players. In this mode, there's just one shared pile and the 
 players alternate turns forming words. The winner is the player with the highest score after two 
 rounds. Unlike the other modes, there are no wild tiles, bombs, or score multipliers in the battle 
 mode. You also can't see or even touch the tiles sitting beneath the ones you pick up, which means 
 it's tougher to form large words in battle matches compared to the relative ease by which you can 
 do so in the other noncompetitive modes. You'd think those simplifications would hurt gameplay, 
 but in reality they don't, because all that streamlining makes matches play out fast and furiously. 

  You can play the battle mode with your friends locally or with people online. For local play, you 
 can pass around a single system or use the DS download feature to link two systems together using 
 just the one cartridge. Lag isn't a problem with online matches, since players alternate turns. 
 However, unless you hit up your buddies and favorite message boards to exchange friend codes, you're 
 going to have a difficult time finding people to compete against online. As of the writing of this 
 review, it seemed there was hardly enough people logged in for random matchmaking to be fruitful. 

           The dictionary is full of esoteric words like 'loofah' and 'querl.'      

  Bear in mind, too, that you won't be blown away by the presentation. The frog pond and temple backdrops 
 are static apart from the occasional water droplet. All of the letter tiles are basically just 
 Scrabble pieces, and the only action you'll ever witness is when the letters fly off the screen. 
 At least the letter tiles are easy to read, and the Asian-themed music is pleasant without ever 
 becoming a distraction.  

  As for the miscellaneous aspects, the game's dictionary recognizes some pretty obscure words, while 
 the touch-screen controls make it easy to pick letters and tap the undo button. Selecting letters 
 by tapping them is much easier than using cell phone keys. The DS game also doesn't suffer from 
 the input lag that many of the cell phone versions do. Another feature exclusive to the DS rendition 
 is the inclusion of an awards tracker, which gives you butterfly medals for achieving various milestones 
 (spell a word worth 100 points, spell a nine-letter word, and so on) . It won't be a big deal for 
 most people, but it's a nice motivational feature nonetheless.  

  All in all, if you're a vocabulary snob and proud of it, you'll probably enjoy WordJong for the 
 Nintendo DS. The basic premise is highly addictive, each mode offers a different take on the concept, 
 and the battle mode offers the competitive edge that previous incarnations were missing.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Most of the games on the DS dont really appeal to me, but Puzzle Quest and WordJong are 100% winners 
 for me. There's genuine thought required to play this word game (its like scrabble but you have 
 to use letters to uncover other letters before you can play them in a word) . Even better, you dont 
 have to rush. You have all the time you want to create larger words that will give you a bigger 
 score. 
  
  The twist in the gameplay is that the game ends only when you have used all of the tiles on the 
 board. So, that means the game get harder in the last 3 moves or so because you need to conserve 
 your vowels or you wont be able to end the game. Thankfully, you can go back several moves at any 
 time without penalty to try to end the game successfully.
  
  The game's internal dictionary of words is large but it sometimes doesnt know plurals of more obscure 
 words, even though it knows the singular version of that word. Its a minor issue but you'll notice 
 it at some point. ANd the graphics are fine for this type of game but I wouldnt call them amazing. 
 
  
  I know some gamers would run away from a game of scrabble would also have zero interest in this 
 game! But if you do like word games, I cannot imagine why you wouldnt like this game. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crooknook
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent. I can't recommend this game more highly for word based game fans. As a 
 fan of Scrabble and Boggle, I have been looking for a great word/tile based game for the DS. This 
 is it! It met and exceeded my expectations.
  
  Word Jong is a great value for the small $19.99 price. The game isn't flashy but is any word based 
 game? The touch screen works flawlessly. 
  
  I enjoyed the three different modes of play. Sinle player mode is addictive and I have a hard time 
 putting it down yet you can play a complete game in less than five minutes.
  
  I appreciate that Destineer made this game downloadable for two players with only one player required 
 to own the game. The two-player game only takes about 5-10 minutes to play and has been enjoyable 
 between me and other DS owners in my home. 
  
  I keep waiting for Boggle to be re-relased (currently it is very rare and has some bugs) . Now that 
 Word Jong has hit my DS, I haven't thought much about Boggle. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
