-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: World Championship Poker
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/worldchampionshippoker/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Healthy selection of different poker games.
 CPU plays smart, especially on higher difficulty settings.
 Career mode actually has some depth to it!.
 Wireless multiplayer only requires one game card.
 Beautiful 3D player models and poker rooms.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Hard to figure out patterns since folding leads right into results screen.
 Random player animations make it impossible to establish tells.
 CPU has a habit of calling pre-flop all-in bets.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 29, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 6.6, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 193 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Crave
Genre: Casino
Date: Apr 17, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
People looking for a multiplayer poker game for the DS should jump on this one. Solo players, meanwhile, 
 will need to take a few nagging design flaws into consideration. 

  World Championship Poker for the Nintendo DS dishes out a heaping helping of value for a relatively 
 inexpensive price. It includes 10 popular poker variations, four barroom side games, an extensive 
 career mode, and a multiplayer mode that allows up to six players to participate using only a single 
 game card. There are a few nagging problems with the way tells and reads are handled for CPU opponents, 
 which could potentially sour the single-player modes for some people. Otherwise, this collection 
 of Vegas-style card games is just the thing for players who are looking to brush up on their poker 
 skills.  

          The game's fine if you're planning to play with other players...     

  The game includes 10 different poker variations: Texas hold 'em, double-flop hold 'em, pineapple, 
 Omaha hold 'em, Omaha hi-lo, seven-card stud, seven-card hi-lo, baseball, five-card draw, and deuces 
 wild. That's a fairly diverse selection and pretty much covers all of the major games that you'll 
 see on TV or down at the local casino. Blackjack and video poker are included as well. So are air 
 hockey and darts, although these last two are only available while playing through the career mode. 
 Basic tutorials are also provided for each game in the collection.  

  Single-player modes include quickplay and career. You can play a one-off round in the quickplay 
 mode, which offers five different difficulty settings, but you'll probably enjoy yourself much 
 more if you participate in games within the framework of the career mode.  

  In the career mode, you start out as a rookie rounder that's trying to work your way up from the 
 tables at a lowly redneck casino to the world championship tournament that's being held at a ritzy 
 high-roller establishment. There are four casinos in all. Each one offers a full range of stand-alone 
 tables and a cluster of tournaments that are specific to that particular location. The bet limits 
 and CPU skill levels increase as you move up in the rankings, but the real highlight of the career 
 mode is the ability to create your own custom character and use your winnings to buy new accessories 
 and upgrades for it at the gift shops located inside each casino. You can put together your own 
 custom player model by selecting from dozens of different body, clothing, and accessory types. 
 Many of the accessory items on sale in the shops don't have any practical use, but it's still a 
 nice ego booster to see a new stereo or plasma TV sitting in your character's inventory. Upgrades 
 can be bought that will improve your character's ratings with regards to luck, game face, intimidation, 
 and skill. You need to invest a ton of money to see discernable results, but eventually you'll 
 begin to notice that you're getting better cards and that the CPU isn't calling your bluffs as 
 often.  

  For the most part, the CPU does a good job of playing by the numbers and will fold, bluff, or check-raise 
 when the situation is appropriate. Chip leaders have a tendency to be aggressive and will make 
 bets to try to force out hangers-on, especially in three-way or heads-up play. The maximum number 
 of players that can be at a table is limited to six, but you'll run across more than a dozen different 
 opponents as you visit the various tables and make it through tournament-elimination rounds. Each 
 opponent has his or her own play style and habits, which you'll gradually catch onto the more you 
 play. The only obvious flaw regarding the CPU artificial intelligence is that it has a nasty habit 
 of calling pre-flop all-in bets. But if you're risking it all like that, the chances are good that 
 you won't survive to see the next hand.  

  One of the most important aspects of poker is the ability to watch your opponents play and gradually 
 uncover any patterns or telling behaviors that they may have that will tip you off to their hands 
 in the future. The CPU opponents in World Championship Poker have their own play styles and habits, 
 just like real people do. Unfortunately, some aspects of the game's design get in the way of the 
 player's ability to read opponents and figure out patterns. First off, you can't watch hands that 
 you're not involved in. When you fold, the game immediately fast-forwards to the outcome, which 
 means you don't get to watch your opponents make bets, raise, or reraise one another or see the 
 subsequent flop, turn, and river cards. As it is, the outcome display is poorly organized. It only 
 shows the hands that were made as a result of putting the best combination of hole cards and community 
 cards together, which makes it impossible to tell what an individual's hole cards were or in what 
 order the community cards appeared.  

          ... but maybe you should just get a deck of cards, instead.     

  Another major gripe 
 against the game's design is that the visual behaviors displayed by CPU opponents are entirely 
 for show and don't mean anything. The developer put the 3D capabilities of the DS to good use by 
 giving each CPU player a variety of different hand gestures and facial expressions, but they dropped 
 the ball by making them random instead of associating them with the players' habits. Some of the 
 animations are pretty funny, particularly the cowboy who sometimes tips his hat and yells "yee-haw," 
 or the old man who sometimes takes a drag off a portable oxygen tank before making a move. It's 
 too bad that they do these things just as often when they're about to fold as they do when checking 
 or making a bet.  

  Obviously, you don't have worry so much about CPU AI, outcome screens, or simulated tells if you're 
 playing against other human beings. You can just look over at your friends to observe their mannerisms, 
 and it's not too much of a bother to ask people to call out their bets or to inform folded players 
 what cards are coming up on the flop, turn, and river. The multiplayer mode in World Championship 
 Poker lets you set up single- or multiround play against as many as five other players. Each of 
 the 10 different poker games, along with blackjack, is available for play in this mode. Best of 
 all, the game supports single-card download play, which means you only need one game card in order 
 to link as many as six DS systems together.     

  In addition to taking advantage of the system's wireless game-sharing feature, World Championship 
 Poker also makes good use of the system's dual screen, touch screen, and ROM save features. The 
 upper screen shows CPU opponents, their bets, and (depending on the game) the cards they've put 
 down. Meanwhile, the lower screen shows your cards and your bets. You can control the game using 
 the stylus or by using the D pad and buttons. If you use the stylus, you can make bets, fold, or 
 discard by tapping the appropriate spots on the lower touch screen. If you use the D pad and buttons, 
 you can cycle through those same spots just as easily. For some reason, there's a one-second delay 
 between when you input a command and when it's actually reflected onscreen. This can be annoying 
 at first, but it doesn't really hurt the game in any practical way. Progress made in the career 
 mode is automatically saved after every round or gift shop transaction. There's no way to save 
 the game in the middle of a round or during a tournament, which is a bummer if you don't have enough 
 time to invest in a long game or if you're interrupted. There are two different save slots, which 
 is great, because it means you can alternate between two custom characters or you can share the 
 game with another member of the household.  

          The graphics in World Championship Poker are mighty fine.     

  Shockingly enough, 
 World Championship Poker is also no slouch when it comes to graphics and audio. In fact, it's one 
 of the better-looking DS games out there right now. The 3D-modeled computer opponents are exceptionally 
 detailed, both in terms of costumes and body animations. Subtle details such as jewelry and clothing 
 patterns are easy to pick out because the textures and polygons are sharp and clearly defined. 
 When you're seated at a table, the game shows your opponents in a first-person view on the upper 
 screen. The viewpoint cycles from one opponent to the next while they consider and place their 
 bets. During that time, you can watch them fidget, check out their eye movements, and see their 
 facial expressions change. The casinos are also fully 3D. Using the D pad, you can walk around 
 inside the casinos, enter the various rooms, and step up to the tables to see what games are offered. 

  What's more surprising is that there's an environment outside the casinos too. In order to visit 
 another casino, you actually have to walk down the street and step inside it. While wandering the 
 streets of Casino Lane, you'll also uncover bonus areas, such as a video arcade or tattoo parlor, 
 where you can throw down some of your hard-earned winnings to play air hockey or ink up your custom 
 character. Each casino has its own specific theme, which is clearly evident in the decorations 
 and furniture situated inside. The Western casino, for example, has a Wild West-style bar and player 
 piano, along with a couple of cheesy paintings of dogs playing poker. The Amazon casino is packed 
 with trees and vines, and has a river running through it. The other two casinos represent Greek 
 and modern themes, and you can pretty much imagine how they're decorated.  

  The background music that plays inside each casino is fairly pleasant. A variety of different atmospheric 
 noises -- such as people talking, glasses clanking together, and chips rustling when they hit the 
 table -- bring a touch of authenticity to the experience. There's also a ton of speech in the game. 
 The dealer asks for bets and subsequently announces when he's laid down the flop, the turn, and 
 the river cards. CPU players will make comments like "bow down to me," and they'll call out when 
 they have a full house or nut hand. Individual CPU players have a habit of repeating the same phrases 
 over and over, which does have the tendency to become annoying during long rounds or tournaments. 

          You'll find different casinos, a handful of poker variants, and even some unlockable bonuses, 
 if you're lucky.     

  Overall, World Championship Poker for the Nintendo DS does more things right than it does wrong. 
 It includes a healthy selection of different poker games and makes good use of the system's dual 
 screen, touch screen, and wireless multiplayer capabilities. If you're looking for a portable poker 
 game to play with your other DS-owning friends, then you needn't look any further than World Championship 
 Poker. Whether or not you enjoy the game's single-player modes, however, will depend on your ability 
 to forgive the design flaws that make it nearly impossible to establish reads and tells against 
 CPU opponents. Aside from those nagging aspects, the CPU is smart enough and challenging enough 
 to make this an excellent game for beginners and intermediate players looking to brush up on their 
 poker skills.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 5, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I've been a huge fan of Texas Hold 'Em for years. When I have some extra time on my hands, I like 
 nothing better than to log onto various websites and play a few rounds against the computer or 
 other people around the world. Not to mention the countless hours I spend watching on the tele. 
 That being the case, when I saw World Championship Poker for the DS sitting in the clearance rack 
 at Circuit City, I could not move fast enough to the register.
  
  Players can start either in career mode or in a quick play option. Quick games are exactly that, 
 a way to play a few hands on your lunch break. Career mode is the exact opposite, great for players 
 who are in for the long haul. You can create your character through various categories like face 
 shape, hair color, jewelry and accessories, among other options (think the Sims, though not as 
 complex) .
  
  After your character is ready, you begin your journey to poker stardom. You begin in the Wild Corral 
 casino with a decent chunk of money and can immediately start playing games like Blackjack, Video 
 Poker, Texas Hold 'Em, and Seven Card Stud among many others. You can also enter various Texas 
 Hold 'Em tournaments in an effort to earn the respect needed to later move on to bigger and better 
 casinos (the Amazon, the Nebula, and the Renaissance) , and bigger pots as well.
  
  To break up the card gaming monotony, in between the various casinos are arcade halls where you 
 can take part in two mini-games: Darts and Air Hockey. You can place bets on either, the more money, 
 the higher the difficulty, and it's a great way to easily earn back some of the cash that you just 
 lost in that last tournament. Maybe too easily actually, as once you get the hang of flicking your 
 stylus in a set path, the money will roll in, eliminating some of the challenge. If only darts 
 in the real world were as easy, we would all be set.
  
  If you do happen to find yourself with an excessive amount of money, the game offers you stores 
 in which to spend your dough. You can buy virtual clothes, accessories, phones, and so on. These 
 "extras" are filler material at best, and can easily be looked past, but if you want to say you've 
 completed everything in the game, you better get out that pocket book and bite the bullet, as they 
 say.
  
  As for general gameplay, most of the action will be taking place on the touch screen, with all 
 of the player's decisions being carried out with the option of D-Pad or touch controls. Scrolling 
 across the top screen are your opponents (along with their decisions and chip counts) , ranging 
 from an elderly grandmother to what looks to be a leader of a biker gang, with many unique characters 
 in between. The graphics are your standard handheld fare, nothing too extraordinary but nothing 
 to complain too much about either.
  
  In an effort to help the players who may not be as skilled at the various games available, the 
 title offers character actions, which repeat whether a character has flopped a top pair or is bluffing. 
 For one, the grandfatherly player will reach for his oxygen when he is losing a round or when he 
 is about to fold. Nine times out of ten, you could rely solely on these animations to make your 
 way through a round, but when you do end up getting screwed over by the game, it's a thankful thing 
 that the character animations can be turned off. While cute and witty at the beginning, they get 
 old fast. Not to mention the fact that they consume quite a bit of time, which is at a premium 
 in those marathon tournament sessions. Also, they sound pretty cheesy too.
  
  Speaking of sounds, the audio department overall is pretty poor, and as such, I played with the 
 volume completely at zero. Most of the background songs sound like elevator music on crack, and 
 the occasional spoken phrases "Post Blinds" and "Read 'em and weep" are the only things to break 
 it up. Trust me, you're not missing much by having the sound down. If anything, you're saving battery 
 life, which is always a plus when tournaments (which have multiple rounds) can easily take upwards 
 of an hour, depending on your own personal skill level.
  
  Being able to hone your skills is the best part about World Championship Poker. That and the fact 
 that it's portable. The graphics are average and the sounds are basically horrid, but if you can 
 look past that, you might find some addictive gameplay piled beneath the rubble. And if you can't 
 enjoy the game on your own, the fact that you can play with up to five friends through DS Download 
 Play should help you out.
  
  If you are craving some cheap poker action, this is a pretty decent place to start, just be forewarned 
 that you could find many of the same games and thrills online in free, albeit stationary versions.
 
  
  Review part of grrlgamer. com. Full review and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=wcpoker 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlahBlah14
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Notice the title of this review. I said, "A great poker game for the DS." That's because it's the 
 only one, but hey. It's great nonetheless. You first crate a character with a moderate variety 
 of options. You can drastically change a character's hair, make their bodies look like 70's Schwarzenegger, 
 and have some of the wort clothing in the world. Well now you're play, and your first challenge 
 is at the Corral. Hmm... that's seems so totally new in casino games! You verse such challenging 
 foes as a grandmother, a biker, a real-life cowboy who just- oh, no! I'm not making any 'Brokeback 
 Mountain' jokes in this review. That's where I draw the line! You can play a great plethora of 
 poker games like Pineapple, Baseball, Omaha, 7-Card Stud, Blackjack, and of course, Texas Hold 
 'Em. Once you've conquered these games and cleaned the competition dry, you can be able to spend 
 your dough on new accessories, and attributes to swing the luck in your favor. Wait, what's that? 
 You suck at poker and lost your money? Well never fear! Just head on down to the Loan Office and 
 get enough moolah to satisfy your needs for the time being. Just be sure to buy him back, or else! 
 Well that's as far as I ever got considering the A. I. are about as stupid as a box of crayons. 
 But hey, you'll get used to it, and reap the rewards of your trials. So, World Championship Poker 
 for the DS is a great game, but it's the only game if your poker tooth starts craving for some 
 action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfemanTRITON
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 12, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  It's poker. Poker is the best card game ever. Not to mention they also put blackjack, video poker, 
 darts, and air hockey on here. It's a fun game, even if the graphics aren't good, the soundtrack 
 is horrible (just mute it and listen to alternative rock like I am right now) , and that the tournaments 
 take forever to complete.
  
  Pardon the babble but that was obvioulsy not 100 words.
  
  akfjasj klasj fksajdkf jsdkjf sjfkasjf kasjk jsdkfjsdkj kasdjfkasj; fkjas l; kjfaklsj fkasjfklsdj 
 ksajkfsjakfjsak jks jfkasdjfksd jksdjf kasjfk sjk jkasjfksj ksdjfks jksdj ksdjf ksjfksjkfs jkasjf; ljskfjasdkj 
 kasdj kasdjfksdjfk sjfksdjfksd jksdfj kasdfjksajsjakfa jkfasj; fksajfl; asjf; laj lkajfkljsaklfjask 
 jaslk; jf; lsajflka; jkl j kj lk; aj; lfjs l; sajfklsj ksj ksjkfsjfklsajf; sajl; kjkfsjkasjf kj kajsklfjsfksj 
 kjskflajl kj ijka jakj; aj; fksajfksajfklasjfkja kjalk; jakljfsklfjskfja; j jakl jlka; sjfkslj kj 
 kja ja; klfjsdkjfsdl; kj askdjfskljf klj kajklfjsklfj akj k jkajs; ljfsk jka jkal j; lsajf kjs kja 
 ksjk jskjfa; lj ;skjfksj ka; ljfk jsj skajk jsk jaskljf ksjf kjaskdj ksjfks jkla; j ; j; jaj; js. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoexpert
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I wasn't expecting a whole lot from this game, but they could have done a little better 
 job. 
  
  The multiplayer's OK, if you happen to know another person with a DS who likes poker as much as 
 you do, and you both happen to have a DS with you, and neither of you has a deck of cards, and 
 one of you happens to have the game. Other than that, poker is a lot more fun with a deck of cards, 
 where you can actually look at your opponent, not some cheap figure who repeats the exact same 
 phrases over and over and over and over (I actually played this game a lot) .
  
  The single player is nothing more than mediocre. It features a wide variety of poker games (I think 
 twelve in all) , and it also has some moderately fun mini-games. You can buy stuff with your winnings 
 as well, such as skills or items to characterize your person. And the casinos are pretty creative 
 and kind of fun to look at. That's pretty much where the good parts stop.
  
  The games themselves are good, but they just don't give you the satisfaction of a real-life poker 
 game. The computer players stick with the exact same phrases, which they use completely regardless 
 of what their hand is like. This sucks because it eliminates the possibilty of unique "tells", 
 which is a very large part of poker. Also, the games can get very monotonous, ESPECIALLY in tournaments, 
 where you play several hands of the exact same game over and over. The fact that all you do is 
 play cards the whole time can also be boring (that, however, should not be viewed as the game's 
 fault, because the game is a poker game, after all) . The character animations get annoying, but 
 if you turn them off, the game becomes even more monotonous, and it becomes almost purely statistical.
 
  
  In short, this game can be useful in improving your knowledge of poker games and the chances of 
 certain hands occuring, but its numerous shortcomings, coupled with its "unreal" factor, make me 
 want to stick with the good old deck of cards and a stack of chips. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squid_man
Rating: 5.3
Date: Aug 15, 2005 10:17 pm PT
Review:  WCP is one of the worst games i have ever played. You wander around a city going into varous casinos 
 to play in poker tournaments to become the poker champ. Already a very weak premise but you shoudnt 
 really expect plot from a poker game. But problems bog it down from the start. Once in a casino 
 you sit down at whatever game strikes your fancy and start playing against several bots. The first 
 problem is right there. There are only about 9 character models for bots. This takes away all sense 
 of realism from the game. An example is if your in a tournament and you beat Bill, Granny, and Joe 
 in round one you probaly going to face one of them again in the next round. Another problem with 
 the bots is that they will say the same things over and over again at random times and when it 
 doesnt make sence (In one game all the players folded and it showed his face down cards on the screen 
 and the bot said "read em and weep"..... that makes sense) . The different types of poker made a 
 good transition to the DS and the touch pad works well for selecting cards, placing bets ect. The 
 most infuriation thing about the game for me was the music. There is different music for each casino 
 but the same few bars of music on an endless loop gets on your nerves. When walking around in the 
 casino the top screen shows you what you are looking at in a very poorly animated 3D world. The 
 bottom screen is a map. They could have thought of at least one use for the touch screen instead 
 of a map. The Multiplayer plays just like the game, but why would you play virtual poker with your 
 freinds instead of real poker?
  
  In the end, if you play poker for money online or at casinos or with freinds buy this just for 
 some practice, If you dont play for money dont buy it. Ther are much better poker sims out there. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
