-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Worms: Open Warfare 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/wormsopenwarfare2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid online play.
 Loads of customization options.
 More weapons.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Doesn't do much to differentiate itself from the standard Worms formula.
 Screen size still confining.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 21, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.0, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 310 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Team 17
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date: Sep 4, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though the additions and adjustments to the standard Worms experience aren't game changing, the 
 playful violence and light strategy still hold up. 

  After spending a few years trying to transition the Worms franchise into 3D, it would seem that 
 Team 17 has come to terms with the fact that its good-humored strategy series is simply more appealing 
 in 2D. Worms: Open Warfare 2 for the DS and PSP does little to tinker with the established formula, 
 but what it does hold over the original Open Warfare is more content.  

  Worms: Open Warfare 2 seems totally comfortable playing to the audience that's already got a taste 
 for its particular brand of turn-based strategy. This is most apparent in the gameplay, which plays 
 almost identically to any of the 2D Worms games released over the past five years. With a four-pack 
 of worms at your command, you take on up to three other teams of worms, inching your way across 
 a craggy landscape and hurling both conventional and unconventional weapons at one another. Open 
 Warfare 2 raises the number of weapon types to just over 30, bringing back classic munitions like 
 the concrete donkey while introducing a number of new, ridiculous pieces of weaponry like the explosive 
 buffalo of lies. While the worms themselves are the source of much of the game's charm, it's the 
 weapons that make Worms fun, and the arsenal in Open Warfare 2 is solid.  

           Fried, baked, boiled -- there are so many fun ways to prepare worms.      

  There are 
 a few different single-player options to choose from. Most significant is the campaign, which sees 
 you guiding a team of worms through a series of increasingly challenging scenarios. The idea here 
 is that you're taking on enemies from throughout history, which in practice means you'll get to 
 see a number of differently themed backdrops over the course of the campaign. The one interesting 
 kink is the introduction of what are effectively boss battles, which end up flexing a different 
 set of muscles than your usual Worms game. This is also true for the puzzle mode, where the challenge 
 is to not only kill all the worms, but to do it with a very limited arsenal. The puzzle levels 
 are often designed in such a way that there's a right way to do it, which is almost in direct opposition 
 to the usually improv-heavy Worms gameplay. Setting the PSP and DS versions apart, each gets its 
 own side game. The PSP gets a simple time attack mode where your goal is to reach an exit point 
 on a level as quickly as you can. On the DS you get the laboratory, a collection of three minigames 
 that make some rudimentary use of the DS touch screen and microphone. While there are hours of 
 fun to be had in the campaign and puzzle modes, neither the time attack nor the laboratory amount 
 to much more than brief distractions.  

  A game against computer-controlled opponents is never as unpredictable and exciting as when you're 
 playing against a live opponent, which makes the inclusion of online play to Worms: Open Warfare 
 2 such a significant addition. In addition to regular matches, you can play a simple variant called 
 forts, where the landscape consists of two giant forts on opposite sides of the screen, and rope 
 race, a fun little event where you have to show your prowess with the ninja rope by swinging your 
 way across a level faster than your opponents. Interaction with other players on the DS is limited 
 to simple buddy list and leaderboard options, while the PSP version features voice chat support, 
 clan support, and a messaging system.  

           Worms are always better when your friends also have them.      

  What might be Open 
 Warfare 2's biggest strength is its customization options. As is standard for the series, when 
 you first start the game, you'll be asked to create your own custom team of worms. In addition 
 to choosing the team name, individual worm names, voice samples, and gravestones, you'll choose 
 a team fort, color, victory dance, and flag. While there are a number of preset options for each 
 of these, there's a simple graphical editor that lets you create your own custom flag. While that's 
 all superficial, there's also plenty of customization that affects the gameplay. You can create 
 custom schemes, which let you tweak the game settings in a ridiculous number of ways, from the 
 types of weapons you'll start off with to the severity of fall damage. Longtime Worms fans will 
 likely be most thrilled to learn that Open Warfare 2 marks the return of a proper level editor 
 to the series, which is simple and effective. On top of all that, there's an in-game shop where 
 you can use points earned in the single-player game to unlock additional weapons, background themes, 
 headwear for your worms, and more.  

  Both versions of Open Warfare 2 trade in the familiar kind of crisp, cheery cartoon look that has 
 been with the series for years now, though like the original Open Warfare, the PSP version wins 
 by virtue of a bigger screen, whose horizontal orientation is simply a better fit for your usual 
 Worms level layout. The controls feel fine on both versions, which means that if you can overlook 
 the somewhat confining screen size on the DS, you'll still have some fun.  

  Across the board, Worms: Open Warfare 2 is an improvement over the original Open Warfare. There 
 are lots of weapons, plenty of single- and multiplayer content to dig into, and enough customization 
 options to really hook established fans. At the same time, efforts to diversify the Worms experience 
 aren't mind-blowing, and the game doesn't go out of its way to reel in new players.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: acfjosh
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 10:45 am PT
Review:  This is one killer worms game. With some amazing graphics in cutscenes and gameplay. Some Ratchet 
 and Clank style weapons (HUGE) and some awesome gadgets.
  
  You start off naming you team of 4 worms. You then name them, colour them, change their voice, 
 grave and victory dance.
  
  The gameplay is classic worms. The controls are easy to pick up and the maps are easy to navigate 
 with the handy touchscreen.
  
  You can pick up the story mode taking yoou from Pirate battles to space battles. Then funny laboratory 
 minigames and some challenging puzzles.
  
  Completion of levels or any of the above will get you some handy cash to use in the store. Buying 
 maps, voices, colours, graves, forts, more minigames an more.
  
  Now an added extra is the creation of your own maps. Which is surprisingly detailed and deep. Changing 
 the grass to rocks and placing bombs and mines everywhere
  
  Worms have been neglected lately and have been looking for a home.
  
  call in to your nearest 
 game store to sponsor one
  
  you need to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyPirateSF
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with this: Worms is a good game, but with the added multiplayer options it makes it 
 a great game.
  
  When I first got this game, I beat singleplay mode in... oh, two days. Pretty easy, AI was not 
 unfair and I never felt the game was onesided. I loved it.
  
  Customization was great as well. You can make your own levels, change your worms color, voice, 
 and victory dance, AND your team flag. I love games with huge customization, so this was a definite 
 plus.
  
  There are many minigames, such as the labratory games, as well.
  
  But if your looking for a really fun time in Worms Open Warfare 2, then you have to do multiplayer. 
 Multiplayer with one DS is fun, but not everyone sees the screen all the time. Multiplayer via 
 ds download is great, but occasionally I experienced glitches where the game would freeze up and 
 lock up the whole thing.
  
  Nothing is as fun as WiFi battles though. I still go back and play WiFi and never get bored of 
 it. It's one of the very few Nintendo games where you don't need that annoying "Friend code" to 
 play online. This is probably the best point in Worms Open warfare 2.
  
  Problems are minor, but I was surprised at the number of glitches I encountered when playing. Sometimes 
 when I'm creating a level some buttons will turn to pixel blobs and ather strange things will happen, 
 like lines on the screen. Sometimes the game will lock up and you have to turn off your DS and 
 turn it back on. This gets particularly annoying in WiFi matches because it makes you look like 
 a quitter. (Some guy in taiwan's all like "heeeeeey.... He just a big quittah!!! Now I hafta turn 
 offa my DS and staht it uppagain!") Sometimes, unsettling noises come from the cartridge when these 
 glitches occur, like loud "pop" noises.
  
  Of course there's always the possibility that my game cartridge is screwy. hmmm.......
  
  Overall, 
 if you have a DS, get this game for your collection. It's replay value is huge and is actaully 
 better than going through it the first time. This is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihatelowfatmilk
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  Worms Open Warfare 2: The best deal with Gamestop I have ever made. It has cute little worms who 
 want to knock the living guts out of eachother which, in my opinion, is good quality fun.
  
  At the beginning, you create an army of 4 worms. You can name them, choose their color, make 
 a team name and a team flag then you send them to a battlefield to smash their way through history's 
 greatest wars (including the future!)
  
  The Breakdown!
  
  Controls: The controls are simple but fun. Score: 9/10
  
  Graphics: It's all good here. Score: 
 10/10
  
  Replay Value: You could play this a million times and still love it! 10/10!
  
  WiFi: Pretty much awesome! 10/10!
  
  Overall: You can create your own rules and backgrounds, 
 battle other people around the world and use zany weopens! 10/10!
  
  Worms Open Warfare 2 DS is a game that every DS owner should have on their shelf! Buy Now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalHead888
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  I saw this game at gamestop new for 10 bucks. As a big Worms Armageddon fan, i knew i had to get 
 it even though i didnt have a ds. my brother had one that i would use until i got my own. but it 
 was this game that got me into the ds. i feel like this game lives up to the name of worms. The 
 game is excellent, but its way too short. i would have liked to see some action with the stylus, 
 but im not sure how they would have pulled it off. the animations are the best they've ever been 
 and i can never get tired of the crazy weapons being held by well, earthworms. theres just not 
 enough to do. the campaign was only a few hours long, theres some mini game sorta things in there 
 too, but its just not the same. the wifi is decent at its best, but playing a friend is always 
 a fun time. the game would have gotten a much greater rating if was longer. all in all, it was 
 still worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyGamingNerd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  And you wanna know why.... well, i tell you why. Theres a lenghty story mode, training missions, puzzles, online 
 play, Multiplayer, customizable Team, customizable Map, A shop to buy diffrent kinda weapons and voices 
 for worms and many others, and many MORE!!! The Gameplay is just so awesome, the maps are very large 
 with the dual screens, and there are also New weapons that the old ones dont have!
  Now to the online play, theres a random match option or team match or rival... Worldwide or local, its 
 cool.
  You have also some sort of challenges that you have to do to get the medal, like for example "Win 
 20 online matches" then you get a medal to the challenge room.
  Why did Gamespot give a 7.0 to this awesome game... i so dont understand it. IGN gave this game a 
 8.6 wich is much more better, they know how to play it..... Anyway buy this game right NOW!!!! when 
 you still have a chance!
  I bought this game from www. play. com, for like 20$, and its a good price for this awesome game, even 
 if its 40$-50$ id still buy this.
  
  Thank you for reading -HappyGamingNerd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdog30
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This is the best DS game hands down. There is no way you will be disappointed by this game. This 
 is the single best worms game. It is the best in it's series.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER: It is great, the campaign is fun and will last you a little while. Unlocking everything 
 is also fun and will last you even longer. The awards you can get are fun to get. There is so much 
 customization in this game. You choose worm teams names, worms' names, gravestones, victory dances, 
 voices, color of the worm, and you can make your own custom games and save levels using the level 
 editor. 
  
  ON-LINE: This game has the best on-line multi player on the DS. You can add random opponents as 
 rivals right after you face them with the click of a button ; no friend codes on bits of paper 
 :) . The on-line is very fun just to try to win in ranked and unranked games. The leader boards 
 are great as they show you where you stand with your stats such as total on-line time, total worms 
 killed while on-line an more. Waiting times when searching for a game is 25 seconds on average. 
 You can choose a name to use on-line and design a flag that others that you are facing will see. 
 They also see the names you pick for your worms.
  
  MULTI PLAYER: With a single DS and a single game you can play against 1-3 CPUS or against 1-3 other 
 people using hot seat mode. You just pass the DS around to your friend's when it's their turn.
 
  
  BOTTOM LINE: If you are looking for the best DS game, a quality DS game, solid on-line multi player 
 on the DS, or a fun Worms game you found it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thicknick
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  This game is a ton of fun.
  
  I've played this type of game on several occasions before. My friend used to have Worms: Armageddon 
 or something like that and we had a good time with that but maybe only played a couple times together. 
 It was enough of a positive experience to convince me to try the DS game.
  
  Anyway, the graphics are colorful, well animated, and fun. Nothing wrong with the appearance here. 
 The environments are carefully drawn and each area has its own hazard which makes it interesting 
 and adds a large element of luck (but luck doesn't always trump cold, hard skill) . This luck factor 
 keeps things fun, light-hearted, and difficult to predict.
  
  The controls are basic, and you have a decent assortment of weaponry to choose from to blast your 
 enemy annelids into oblivion. The game is relatively well balanced in that basically every weapon 
 has its practical uses and of course its situations in which it is not the best choice. Still the 
 strategy in this game is simple enough to make a pro out of anyone, yet complex enough to really 
 open the door for those who can really aim carefully and calculate strategically to master the 
 game in a way some others maybe could not easily.
  
  There is a handful of things to do in single player mode in order for you to earn money to unlock 
 extra weapons, skin colors, voices, level themes, and some other stuff I'm just not quite sure 
 about. It's enough to entertain you, actually, which is surprising. You'd expect that a game this 
 geared toward multiplayer would have a weak single player path, but it's really pretty entertaining 
 and varied (as varied as this sort of game can be) .
  
  But, like you might imagine, the multiplayer is where this game shines. You can even play with 
 a single cart. I'm not sure what the difference is; I imagine it just has to do with the other 
 person being able to select their own custom team if they have their own cart, rather than having 
 to select one of the pre-made teams. Not that that really makes any difference.
  
  Multiplayer is tons of fun. This is one of the last games you can have a ball with with only two 
 people playing. In fact, more than two and it probably gets tedious and you'd probably start to 
 feel a little antsy waiting for your turn.
  
  So I have to give this game a 10 because there's really nothing wrong with it. It's got a solid 
 amount of content and anything added would be too much, anything subtracted would be not enough. 
 The single player is good, the multiplayer is great, the graphics and sound are nice, and all-in-all, 
 the game's just.. good... so enjoy! If you bump into this sucker at Target or Best Buy, consider 
 picking up a couple copies; one for you, and one for your friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerguy46
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I've never played much of worms at all in the past, so I came into this only knowing very 
 little. I gotta say... this was a lot of fun. I've been playing it for the past ungodly number of 
 hours and boy... it gets to you.
  
  
  Graphics: They work, the environments are nice with some cool backgrounds, the worms look... like 
 worms, and the weapons do some good explosions.
  
  Sound: It's cute, the music is catching and some of the voices you can get are rather entertaining.
 
  
  Gameplay: ... it's good. I don't know what else to say besides that really. I'm playing with my 
 friend right now (he's taking a bathroom break, so I'm writing this) . The multiplayer is really 
 addicting and you get some really funny situations. 
  
  Overall: Get it, at least try it. Make sure you try out the multiplayer cause that's where this 
 game really earns points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -White_Knight-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I've been a Worms fan since the Christmas of 1999, when I got Armageddon for the Dreamcast. After 
 the Dreamcast days, I've tried to find a Worms game suitable enough to take the place of World 
 Party. Worms 3D, Worms 4 Mayhem, nor Worms Forts seemed to capture the perfection that 2D Worms 
 games had. (Although Worms Forts had extremely creative, strategic, and addictive gameplay.) I 
 would've bought Worms Open Warfare 1, but I didn't know it existed until I heared about Warfare 
 2!
  
  Suprisingly, I think this is the greatest Worms game yet! There's a ton of stuff to do!
  
  
 You can play "Quick Game", A normal match vs. the AI
  
  You can play "Single Player", A mode that consists of "Puzzle" (A game of many different minigames) , 
 "Campaign" (A challenging saga against the AI throughout several map schemes) , "Laboratory" (Three 
 minigame modes that let you use the stylus and mic to blow, blast, and draw your worm to the goal) , 
 and finally, "Training Mode" (Not only trains you to master Worms, but also includes a shooting 
 range to help with your aim.) Every challenge that you win earns you point that can buy new weapons, 
 maps, dances, gravestones, ect.
  
  You can play "Multiplayer", A normal match of Worms that can be "Single-Card Play" (2-player match, 
 DS to DS connection) , "Multi-card play" (Up to 4-player match, but all players must buy a Worms 
 game) , or "Wi-Fi Connection" (A match of Worms vs. friends or random people over Wi-Fi.)
  
  "Custom Game" (A fully customizable game where you can play any of your created worm teams in a 
 normal or created game type on a created or generated map!) that's kinda confusing... let's just 
 say that "Custom Game" can be played with 1-3 below.....
  
  1. You can customize up to 10 worm teams. Name the team, name the worms in the team, choose the 
 speech, fort, flag, skin color, gravestone, victory dance, and if the team is human-controled or 
 AI controled.
  (So yes, you can have up to 4-player friend matches by passing one DS around! There's no need for 
 your brother or sister to buy their own Worms game unless they want to.)
  
  2. You can customize your own scheme (game-type) . Name the game, choose the rounds, turn time, 
 round time, retreat time, artillery mode, worm health, fall damage, forts, race, random, indestrutable, 
 special events, weapon crates, utility crates, health crates, the ammount of health in crates, 
 all landscape weapons, all normal weapons, the ammo ammount for nomal weapons, and the time-delay 
 of normal weapons!
  
  3. You can DRAW your own map! What other DS game lets you do that?! (And if that isn't enough drawing, 
 you can draw up to 10 flags for your custom worm teams!)
  
  If you haven't any friends around, then Wi-Fi is a great substitute. You can battle friends, rivals, 
 or random players with your fully customized worm team. (You can't use your individual worm names 
 in a random match, but can use your custom flag.) There are many leaderboards to score on, and 
 you can earn medals!)
  
  -What remains, I'll tell about later: I haven't the time- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -triplestar
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  The thing about this game is that it has every thing that worms games should weapons, worms, blasts, good 
 landscapes (which you can make your own and of course the voices but still there is something missing 
 and thing that its missing i cant quite put my finger on. you will know the feeling if you have 
 got this game afteter playing a 2D worms on the computer.
  However eculding that i think that this game is great its got good modes to play on and its got 
 great multiplayer modes with wifi.
  If you play with it too long however it can get a bit repetitive and if you dont have wifi it can 
 get a little boring and that is what i am missing (i dont have wifi) with Worms world party on 
 the computer you already have access to Internet.
  Still i think this game has the soul of any other worms game and if you like worms this game is 
 worth adding to your collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gardevoir_1993
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  The Good: MORE WEAPONS!!!, customisation, wi-fi, blowing things up, killing worms, senseless violence 
 using worms
  
  The Bad: STILL needing the nukes-in-cans, no weapon garage yet, "codenames" for wi-fi worms
  
 
  Full Review: Open Warfare 2 waaay outclasses Open Warfare 1, which was a big disappointment. The 
 only thing I could merit it with was that it was better than Forts: Under Seige, but was nothing 
 special otherwise. Thankfully, Open Warfare 2 has really improved. For a start you get a MAP EDITOR!!! 
 Even Worms 4 didn't have one of these! It's a bit basic but a lot of fun making your maps. I especially 
 like making protracted seige maps ie. plonk teams in fortresses and see which one is brainless 
 enough to try and cross a field full of mines, oil drums and (YAAAY!) sentry guns! Sentry guns 
 are great! You also get to take your squad of senseless killers online for the first time. Trouble 
 is, they have to settle for stupid codenames and their real names are hidden. The destruction at 
 the heart of Worms: senseless killing, blowing stuff up, etc. has really improved with better weapons 
 but the nukes-in-cans are still not here (BOO!) . Still, it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  Worms Open Warfare 2 is the sequel to the disappointing Worms Open Warfare but thank goodness, 
 the sequel fixes all the problems that were in the last game and has more features too. Online 
 play is a welcome edition which makes use of the Nintendo Wi-FI connection. Almost all games are 
 lag free and very enjoyable. It also has SIngle Card play but it only works for one on one matches 
 so you can't send it to 3 friends unlike the last one which is kinda disappointing but not that 
 big of a deal. New weapons are present in the game such as the Lightning Strike and Bunker Buster 
 and old weapons such as Banana Bombs and Holy Hand Grenades. In short, Open Warfare 2 is one of 
 the best worms games and a great handheld title.
  
  Graphics are much better than the last game which had dead awful visuals. Worms actually look like 
 worms and the terrain looks really smooth. Weapons are also better looking than the last game but 
 due to the small screen size of the DS, some weapons look blurred at times. Graphics are good but 
 not great
  
  Sound is really great. The background music is really good and the voices of the worms still sounds 
 as good as before. The sound effects of the weapons are also very nice and I'm glad that the Holy 
 Hand Grenade goes "Halelujah!" unlike the last game which didn't have any sounds coming out.
  
  If you're a huge worms fan then this game is perfect for you. If your a fan of strategy games 
 and wacky fun then I'm sure you'll have lots of fun with this but I'd suggest finding one thats 
 cheap. Have a look in bargain bins and if you do find one, then get it. It's one of those games 
 you'll be picking up every once in a while when you're bored, not a game you'll be spending lots 
 of time on.
  
  Overall, this game is for worms fans and strategy lovers but if you're not one of them then this 
 game may not be for you. However, if you're interested try finding a cheap one instead of paying 
 the full price. Also, make sure you have online available since multiplayer is this game's strongest 
 point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mapler2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  This game was fair, it had every thing you expect in a worms game with some added fetures. the 
 best one was that you can face anyone, anywhere, anytime, with wifi and thats what made this game 
 not only a instant classic but hip and uptodate. this game is great game for anyones collection. 
 you can make more mayhem with three new weapons. the bunker buster, buffalo of lies and the lightining 
 storm is going to make you game well better. you may buy this game just to have the pc game just 
 on you ds. it has all thouse classic voices and some new ones to date. if you can't afford it, 
 then i got a great tip. don't buy it, i know it sounds crazy but listen. then wait until they have 
 too many and so they lower there price and then go buy it. i hope this advice helped and if you 
 do get it then let it give you hours of pleasure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MRxMADxMONKEY
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 3:14 am PT
Review:  Worms: Open Warfare 2 is one of those 'Must Own' DS games, regardless of your age or gender, as 
 long as your willing to put a few minutes (not long at all) into learning how to play. It's got 
 several modes, lots of customization, amazing multiplayer, good single player, and lots of cute 
 worms killing one another. How can someone not love this?
  
  You can create your own team, choosing each of the four worms names, language, gravestone, and 
 color. You can also draw your teams flag and choose one of several victory dances. If you don't 
 see anything you like, there's also a Shop in the main menu where you can go to buy new languages, 
 gravestones, colors, and victory dances. The Shop also sells landscapes, weapons, and missions.
 
  
  Once your team is made you can play one of the several modes:
  Quick Game
  Custom Game
  Single Player - Campaign, Puzzle, Laboratory, Training
  Multiplayer
  
  Custom 
 Game and Multiplayer mode's allow you to choose your team, how many teams your fighting against, 
 your landscape, and allows you to refresh the map until it gets to one you like.
  
  That's another great thing about this game - the maps are randomly generated, so you've never got 
 to play the same exact game twice. However if you see one you absolutely love, you may write down 
 the maps code which you can enter whenever you feel like playing it again.
  
  But if somehow your not finding a map you like, or your somehow getting bored with the game, you 
 can create your very own map using the touch screen. After drawing out your map and choosing it's 
 landscape (Pirates, World War I, World War II, Cold War, Desert War, or Future War) you can place 
 explosive barrels, mines, and spawn points wherever you please - Or you can also choose to have 
 these things randomly placed on your map everytime you play it. The only problem with the map creator 
 is you can't choose where the cover is placed.
  
  The game has single card play, multicard play, and Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection.
  
  Single card 
 play for 2 players. The landscape, map, and your teams are chosen randomly.
  
  Multicard for 4 players. You choose landscape, map, and teams. You may also play maps you made 
 yourself.
  
  Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection for up to 4 players - random match, ranked match, friends match, rivals 
 match, leaderboards, friends & rivals.
  
  There are 33 weapons in this game, listed here:
  Bazooka
  Grenade
  Shotgun
  Mine
  Prod
 
  Sheep
  Girder
  Parachute
  Homing Missile
  Clusterbomb
  Uzi
  Dynamite
  Firepunch
  Super Sheep
  Jetpack
  Rope
  Airstrike
  Holy Handgrenade
  Boomberang
  Electro 
 Magnet
  Dragonball
  Buffalo of Lies
  Blowtorch
  Skip Go
  Bunker Buster
  Banana Bomb
  Lightning Strike
  Sentry Gun
  Kamikaze
  Donkey
  Pneumatic Drill
  Teleport
 
  Surrender
  
  The game has a few minor flaws that I hope will be fixed in Worms: Open Warfare 3 (assuming they 
 make one) but for now, it's one of the best games you can buy on the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiseWarrior101
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  As this is the first "Worms" game I've ever purchased, I was hesitant to expect that much of it. 
 After seeing it had online and saw some positive reviews I decided to buy it, even though I still 
 didn't think worms fighting would be that thrilling. But as soon as I started playing I couldn't 
 stop.
  
  For people who haven't played past "Worm" games, the goal is simple: Control a little army of 4 
 worms and defeat the other army in a turn-based war with tons of different weapons. You play on 
 a vast assortment of stages, that vary from a freezing mountain to the thick of a World War 2 bunker 
 battle. Each and every stage also has 1 thing that all worms fear-water. If any worm falls in water, 
 regardless of its heath, it drowns. Poor worms.
  
  One thing that makes Worms: Open Warfare 2 so fun are all the cool weapons you get to use. Each 
 weapon is unique, and I couldn't find more than 1 or 2 that I didn't think were great. You get 
 classics like a shotgun, bazooka or bomb, wacky ones like the extremely powerful Concrete Donkey 
 or the Banana Bomb, which splits into 5 different bananas upon contact. Some of the weapons such 
 as the bazooka or homing missile require skillful aiming. Make sure to take the distance and wind 
 into account with these or you may end up wasting a valuable weapon.
  
  The best thing about this game is the customization. Never in my life have I seen a game with so 
 many different cusomizable things. You can chance your worms names, flag, how they speak, the weapons, 
 their grave, and you can even create a detailed stage all of your own! For some one who loves to 
 customize, this game is heaven.
  
  Another great thing about Worms: Open Warfare 2, is the vast amount of modes that the worm gods 
 have blessed us with. If you want to play by yourself you have 3 main modes you can play with -- Puzzle, 
 Campaign, and Laboratory. Puzzle mode gives you a set mission that you need to do. It might be 
 to simply defeat the enemy worms, or to get the the goal as fast as you can. Other times you might 
 have to collect all the crates. All in all, Puzzle mode is fun and challenging to play. But even 
 bigger and more enjoyable is the classic Campaign. In Campaign mode, your goal is to defeat the 
 enemey worms in a variety of missions ranging from World War 1 to a battle in outer space. This 
 mode is a blast, and is one of the best single player games. Last but not least is the Laboratory. 
 Here you get 3 different kinds of games, each with 7 missions excusive to the DS. Each one fully 
 ultilizes the DS' capabilties, from blowing your worm to the goal, to drawing a path so your worm 
 won't plummet to his doom. It may not be that long, but it's fun none the less. Of course you can't 
 forget the Custom mode, where you can customize practically everything to your liking. Pure bliss.
 
  
  However, my favorite mode in Worms: Open Warfare 2 is online. Once you've connected to WiFi you 
 can play 4 different games. You can do a random match, which is almost exactly the same as the 
 single player quick match. The main game you'll be doing however is Ranked. It is exactly the same 
 as a quick match, and after you're done your results get updated onto an online leaderboard. To 
 say the least, the leaderboard is huge. You can see the top ten for tons of categories, and see 
 your ranking. Another good thing is what happens if someone D/Cs on you. All the date so far in 
 the match will be saved and you'll move up in the leaderboard. Further more, there's a leaderboarded 
 for the most disconnects, so people everywhere can see who's a bad sport. But no worm battle is 
 complete without friends, and online greatly encourages that. You can register friends with a 12 
 digit friend code that you automatically get the first time you log onto WiFI. After each of you 
 have registered the others FC you can play eacther in a variety of matches. Entering friend codes 
 is kind of tedious, but the next feature make up for it. After you've completed a match against 
 someone online, you can add them to your rivals list. If they accept your wanting to add them, 
 then you can play with them just as you would friends, and also see all their leaderboard data. 
 All in all, online is the meat of the game; the only thing that would have been nice is voice chat, 
 but no game is perfect. Of course if you don't have WiFi you can always play with friends via single 
 or multi card play.
  
  As for bad things, there are very few. The character models aren't that detailed, and since you'll 
 be looking at them all the time you won't really be amazed, though they do have good animations. 
 The other thing would be the sound, as it can be monotonous at times, annoying since each game 
 last a while, which brings me to my last, and biggest complaint. Each game you play can last a 
 long time, which is kind boring. Especially online, when you're forced to wait up to a minute each 
 turn for your opponent to decide what to do. This makes the game more for people who are patient 
 and are good at thinking ahead and making decisions rather than players who want lots of action.
 
  
  So that's my incredibly long review. If you read it all then you get 100 cookies and a free plump 
 hippo. Now for the scores:
  
  Fun: 9
  Gameplay: 9
  Multi Player: 9.5
  Character Graphics: 7
  Backround Graphics: 8
  Special Effects Graphics: 9.5
  Overall Graphics: 
 8
  Musical Sound: 8
  Character Sound: 9.5
  Special Effects Sound: 9.5
  Overall Sound: 9
  Replayability: 10
  
  Overall: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacuuuuu3
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This game it\'s just another DS game, I actually didn\'t like it because when I played it, it was 
 already finished, anyways:
  Variety: Well, as in most worms games, there is a lot of armor, but that\'s all I realized:
  
 7/10
  Graphics: The graphics look nice, a cartoonish style game:
  9.5/10
  Addiction: I think there is a lot of addiction in this game, but once you finish it\'s not fun 
 anymore to play again, with almost no replay value:
  8/10
  Multiplayer: Well, it\'s fun to play with another person in almsot any game, and this will entertain 
 you for a while:
  8/10
  Gameplay: It\'s turn based, so you don\'t need much gameplay, just fine:
  9/10
  Total:
  8.3/10
 
  Conclusion: Not being a worm fan, I actually recommend this game only for the fans, just check 
 it out, or rent it, it's fun a t the beginning, but gets boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poetsoul
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  One certainly has to credit Team 17 for pursuing the "Worm's" franchise for so many years; the 
 result of that work is visible in many aspects of the Worms: Open Warfare 2 experience.
  
  For those unfamiliar with the franchise, Worms is a game of the turn-based soft-strategy genre. 
 Players square off against each other with an army of tiny invertebrates, four to a team in this 
 iteration. Their main objective is to bombard, shoot, blast, or punch the opposing team's worms 
 into oblivion. To do this, each team has an arsenal of various weapons at their disposal, ranging 
 from the standard all-purpose bazooka to such devastating devices as the banana bomb, which bounces 
 several times on the playing field before splitting into a cluster of powerful explosives. After 
 having executed an attack used a tool, the player has a number of seconds to move his worm under 
 whatever cover he or she can find. Each worm has a certain level of health, and once that health 
 is depleted the worm will explode himself, leaving behind a tiny crater and a gravestone to mark 
 his passage. Death can also come from a worm being rocketed (or more embarrassingly, poked) into 
 the great abyss that surrounds each level map. 
  
  The game is simple enough for the inexperienced to grasp the concept fairly quickly, because the 
 standard weapons behave predictably enough and are just as capable as causing mayhem as some of 
 the higher-tier devices. The game rewards players who exercise a level of expertise and strategy, 
 however. A majority of the weapons require the player to account for gravity, distance, and even 
 the direction of the wind. Truly talented players are able to use the bazooka in such a way that 
 the rocket fired will move with the wind to strike an opponent on the far side of a wall. Some 
 weapons can be used together -- one can, for example, use a ninja rope to swing across the map, drop 
 a stick of dynamite upon the heads of the opponent's worms, and swing back to safety, all in the 
 same turn. Team 17 has worked to ensure that experimentation is well rewarded; simple brute force 
 often is simply not enough to defeat a player who knows how to utilize his selected the weapons 
 with skill. 
  
  Another point where Team 17 should be credited is the sheer number of modes that a player can make 
 use of. Multi-player alone consists of the typical deathmatch in which up to four players can duel 
 to the death, Fortress Mode, in which two players are separated by a cabin and must bombard each 
 other from a distance, and Race... whose purpose is obvious. Lacking other people to play, a gamer 
 can also undertake Campaign Mode, a large (if often very simple) series of missions that take the 
 player on a romp over various world and space settings. There is also a nice practice course where 
 one can test out all the weapons, and a bunch of mini-games where the player uses the mike and 
 the stylus to get a worm to the exit in a variety of ways.
  
  The Campaign Mode lacks any real richness... the typical mission is just a pre-configured death 
 match between the player and computer. The strength of each worm, the weapons available to each, 
 and the strategic position of the teams, these all change from mission to mission, but apart from 
 a minor learning curve in the first few levels, there are few events that end up being truly memorable. 
 In a way, the campaign mode is sticking to the games strengths, showing the player the variety 
 of ways that the game can be played in death match mode, but there's no real story, no sense of 
 achievement, and no real desire to repeat any of the missions of this Campaign Mode.
  
  Then of course there is the online function. With a team that can be customized by accent, color, 
 gravestone, name, and flag, players can compete online against other people in either random or 
 ranked matches. The latter is enjoyable since every player has a rank on the leader board. One 
 can mark your progress on the leader boards as your team wins and loses the various matches. Online 
 combat is at once much harder and much easier than combat versus the A. I.... human beings are capable 
 of making some dramatic plays that are beyond the creativity of the computer, yet they make more 
 mistakes too. This feature is really the highlight of the game, and its easy to see that Team 17 
 wanted to extend the lifespan of their project by including in it the same features that made the 
 PC worms games so popular in the first place.
  
  The Map mode is also worth mentioning. Here the players can use the stylus to a design versatile 
 map of their own fancy, replete with tunnels, chasms, walls and platforms, that they can draw, 
 save, and use during against the computer or in multi-card play. The map utility is fairly complex: 
 one can design where the players of each team land, where various land mines and explosive tanks 
 originate, all sorts of deep material that will have the player working for hours. I personally 
 spent two hours producing my own fortress mode, with strategic tunnels and bolt holes, and enjoyed 
 tweaking it and playing against the computer. Its obviously not *quite* as complex as the version 
 that the producers use to make the maps... one cannot decide what weapons will physically appear 
 on the course once the game starts, for example... but its fairly close. With a Scheme designer 
 that let's the player determine each team's arsenal, change the retreat time, and several other 
 options, the number of possibilities for player vs. player combat is very broad.
  
  The largest setback to the game is the quality of the A. I. opponent. There is a variable that determines 
 how difficult each team will be to play, but unfortunately all it seems to control is the precision 
 of each worm with his weapon and not the strategy with which it will use them. A team on high difficulty 
 will therefore be made up of crack shots, especially with the bazooka, but will never be very versatile 
 in its weapon or utility selection. I've never seen a computer worm use a ninja rope, or a jet 
 pack, or burrow through a wall, or any number of a list of things that are common practice with 
 the computer player. It will move, shoot with deadly accuracy, and then retreat, but all with such 
 predictability that it makes the challenge of the game a little less fun.
  
  All told, however, Worms: Open Warfare 2 is an excellent game, with high standards in graphics, 
 sound, game mechanics and replayability. The Multi-player function is its highlight, and it gets 
 even better when all the gamers own a cartridge and can select the course and their customized 
 worms instead of a game on random settings. Worms is thoroughly enjoyable, and even though it is 
 best played with actual people, single player functionality has enough variety and complexity to 
 make up for the mundane A. I.
  
  I give it 4 out of 5 stars. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VRN-KingS-
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  Im perceived as quite a negative Kind of guy, but when I boot up my copy of Worms on my Zelda Triforce 
 emblazoned DS, a smile cant help but creep onto my face.
  
  Finally Worms was back!
  
  Im one of those who remember how Worms was born onto the old systems, the IBM's and Amigas of the 
 day.
  
  There was nothing funnier than Ironically prodding a worm who failed to prod you off, to its doom. 
 All the while Maniacally laughing at your friend as s/he sat next to you.
  
  Worms 2 introduced a very good Editor and now you could play on your own creations. Usually rude 
 words or images.
  
  Worms Armageddon introduced the Song everybody loves, The Enemy threw the latest device, Boggy 
 B went and got it, Despite all advice. WHAT THE! 
  
  As well as a whole slew of voices, maps and weapons. Those lucky PC folk even got the opportunity 
 to record their own worms voices!
  
  Unfortunately Worms took a turn for the worse, when they turned 3D.
  The controls became fiddly, 
 aiming became inaccurate it was no longer fun to play. It became a chore.
  
  Worms Open Warfare 1 reminded us of how it used to be but couldnt quite deliver. Because as we 
 all know at the heart of Worms is each and everyone of your friends.
  
  Worms :OW 2 (Ironic eh?) polishes off the deal. While there appears little improvement on the singleplayer 
 to Worms OW1, theres been a major development in the multiplayer. WIFI.
  
  Okay to the break down.
  
  Worms Open Warfare 2. Graphics:
  
  OH GOD YES!!!!! Simplicity! 
 Gone are the cartoony effects and exaggerated landscapes. Not to say Worms is plain, the little 
 invertaebrates are smoothly edged the background animations are impressively clean and swiftly 
 animated.
  
  My only gripe is the Landscape. While the default landscapes are good too look at with only six 
 or seven schemes it tires.
  Also when making a custom arena the terrain can seem rushed even if youve spent hours making it. 
 Sound:
  
  Now while it is exactly like it used to be, nice and quirky. Its also its downfall. After a few 
 hours those tunes do annoy however cute my girlfriend may think them while chirping in time Left, 
 Left, Left , Right, Left. .
  So I say. No Improvement. Touch Screen:
  
  Ill keep this short and simple. The touch screen is under used, and over-rated for Worms. It doesnt 
 need to use it, and quite often gameplay is alot quicker without its use. The weapons bar doesnt 
 flick up correctly when requested, requiring multiple attempts wasting valuable time.
  
  You have no idea which weapon is which when selecting with a stylus unless youre a veteran and 
 know all the Icons off by heart. ( I am guilty of this) , so often you revert to the D Pad.
  
  Also the lack of Stylus Aiming. It should have been included, even if it would be pointless, 
 as it makes the other stylus uses pointless even more.
  Why be able to select a weapon with it, if you have to aim by Pad?
  
  The stylus's main use 
 in Worms OW2 is the level editor and graphic editor.
  It is perfect for such use.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Ive desibed most elements of Gameplay already. However here are some other points.
 
  The A. I. Unlike prior Worms games Team 17 are usually quite good at balancing it, here there are 
 sharp jumps and drops during the campaign.
  In the Enemy Worm A. I , the Mission Difficulty, even in a Custom game.
  
  Ive played early 
 missions where the enemy worms can launch their bazooka shell across the whole map, INTO a narrow 
 tunnel and DIRECTLY onto my worm. Can I get a WTF?!
  Yet later on, Ive had HARD AI Worms struggling to jump over a ledge.
  Also what gripes, is the 
 AIs Line of Sight approach. Unless they can directly see a worm or have a clear path, they ALWAYS 
 skip their go.
  
  Quite often you can sit under an enemy worm with only a thin piece of terrain seperating you, and 
 yet theyll skip. Why not drill? Humans do....
  Speaking of Humans.... Multiplayer:
  
  The Heart and Soul of Worms.
  Luckily I have a Wifi Hotspot near my home, so I regularly drop 
 into my Macdonalds, buy a Burger and chill out on the Wifi.
  Now my first thoughts are how long it takes to find a game. ARE there really that few people playing 
 online???
  
  No.
  
  Theres actually quite a few, unfortunately Worms OW2 takes a while to connect to its primary servers.
 
  
  Okay so Im connected. Ah.
  now ive got to choose through a bunch of settings to SEARCH for another player who is after the 
 IDENTICAL settings ive chosen. Not good.
  What about the I WANT TO PLAY ANY MATCH setting?
  
  Okay its ok, Its ok, Ill find someone. Ah here we go a nice deathmatch against one other person. 
 Even though Worms OW2 CAN support 4 people with 4 wiorms each. ( However there is a SIGNIFICANT 
 system delay when this is done.)
  
  Okay Ill start play. It looks and feels EXACTLY like the Worms of Old. Alot of the people I play 
 arent that Old Skool though. But thats not the games fault, however the Old tricks are still in 
 there.
  
  Much to the dismay of my first opponent who Disconnected, maybe cause he thought I was cheating 
 when I water bounced grenades, zooks and Nana's over the water, or Curled my Zook shell with the 
 wind.
  
  The only trouble is the Chummyness isnt there. Quite often your opponents play too seriously, as 
 theres no one to laugh with.
  The goodthing is you can tell when a good game has happened.
  
  In my most recent game, it was one worm versus one worm. Both precariously perched in a crater 
 near the waters edge (which had risen for one turn) .
  
  The enemy Firepunched me upwards hoping id Ping off the cliff into the water. I didnt. the water 
 sank.
  
  Then I waddled my pink skin towards the other. My eyebrows raising like Groucho and pulled out 
 a finger. I could tell the other guy was laughing. Thinking it wouldnt do anything.
  
  I Prodded him onto the seabed below. And somehow I felt it dawn on him.
  The water Rose.
  
 
  Laughter could be felt on both sides, as we added each other to the Rivals lists. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pokedude2000
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great multiplayer setting, awsome mini games and hard but not too hard single player 
 action. Right when I got it I played 5 hours straight. Also it has wi-fi capibilities so you could 
 play agaist people in other countries. Also it has brand new wepons, land scape creator, and a 
 flag editor. Another high point is that after each area in single player there is a very entertaing 
 movie. This game is one you will enjoy for a long time. and if you loved the first worms open ware 
 fare you will love this one more. I almost forgot. My favorite wepon is the sheep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luffy513
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I had never played the first Worms: Open Warfare because of how awful I heard it was. But when 
 the 2nd one came out, I read all the good reviews and figured it'd be awesome. This game met all 
 my expectations, and I'd recommend it to anyone. This is the best version of Worms to date. There 
 are a lot of weapons, including a few ones. Although some weapons have been taken out, like the 
 baseball bat, carpet bombs, and the granny bomb, they aren't that missed because of the huge arsenal 
 that you come equipped with. The graphics are great. They match the style of Worms that I grew 
 up with on the computer. They're clean and smooth, and the backgrounds on every themed stage has 
 some sort of 3D element hanging around in the background. It's very nice to look at, and doesn't 
 cause any slowdown in the gameplay. It's a very nice implemation of the DS's graphical power.
 
  
  The controls do what they should, and well. The D-pad moves your worm left and right, while the 
 B button jumps forward. Tap it twice and you do a high jump backwards. There is one type of jump 
 missing, but it's no big deal because it's unneeded. Roping works extremely well, too. The physics 
 of the game are also spot-on. You can shoot a bazooka against or with the wind to get around objects 
 just like you would on the PC and have it hit where you want it to. The gravity , if you want to 
 call it that, is the same as the PC version as well. You call from a distance, and you get hurt 
 if it's too far up. Swinging from a rope is just as easy as the PC version as well.
  
  There's a lot of new modes in this game. Campaign, Puzzle, 3 minigames, Fort battles, and Rope 
 racing. All are very addicting, although you may only do rope racing with a human player... no computers, 
 which is a downer. Most noteable is the Wifi mode, however. It's fun and addicting. You can do 
 Ranked, Unranked, or Friend battles. In Ranked battles, you choose between Deathmatch, Race, or 
 Fort battle. In Deathmatch mode, the weapons you're able to use are random, testing one's ability 
 to win with anything you're given. The other two modes work like they would offline. In Unranked 
 battles, you can choose to look for 2, 3, or 4 player battles. You can also choose from Deathmatch, 
 Forts, or Race modes. Friend battles, as usual, require Friend Codes. The one thing I miss online 
 is the game rooms you could choose to go in, like on Worms World Party.
  
  Overall, I think Worms: Open Warfare 2 is a must-buy for the Nintendo DS. It's superior to any 
 version of Worms, and it's great to see Team 17 go back to its roots with a 2D Worms game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zonetroperalpha
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Worms games have been around for a long time ,and they are a easy example of a great strategy game. The 
 second edition of worms is a brave and better departure from the original.
  
  Single player:
  Single player this time around is long and similar. All missions include killing 
 some one or a team of worms with you team. Although they throw a few linear curve balls like no 
 weapons at the start ,just girders to get up and get weapons, and climb to to the boss worm
  
  The single player spans over 25 missions ,5 for each era; pirates, ww1, ww2, desert war, future 
 war. You also get cut scenes in between every era switch ,which tend to be funny. There are also 
 plenty of old weapons like grenades, rockets, homing missiles ,banana bomb, holy hand grenades ,etc. Bonus 
 missions can be bought ,which dont give money but if complete with main campaign ,you will get 
 a medal.
  
  Multilayer:
  Multiplayer like all other worms titles you get to name your worm team and your worms. up to 16 
 players on 1 map and 4 player on a team. (4 teams) What is excellent is that you can make your own 
 map , with simple but many customization options for the map editor. You can also edit schemes for 
 matches like time for the match, time for each tern, get away time ,weapons and how many you get.
 
  
  Extras:
  With every single player mission beat you get money which can be spent on worm voices, tomb stones, new 
 weapons, landscapes etc.
  
  Flaws:
  Slow downs happen often, when using banana bomb and high explosive weapons. The single player is 
 repetitive, and at times tedious .Unlockable tracks would be nice (at least 1) for each era. Costumes 
 for the worms would be nice as well ,considering they are wearing stuff on the box.
  
  Concluding thoughts: If your old school fan of worms (like i am) , you will appreciate this installment 
 of worms. If your new to worms then you will apreciate wacky humor of the series. JUST GO GET IT! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Throttle74
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  Great Handheld game nothing really tat new about it tbh but after likes of Worms 3d im glad tbh 
 the 2d Worms games are alot better than 3d !
  
  The graphics and sound are good quality and gameplay is spot on i also own the prequel on Psp which 
 was a big dissapointment with lack of features and weapons but this release is very good with various 
 gameplay modes and loads more weapons that was missing in the previous game and a online mode aswell.
 
  
  Recommended its a great game and works very well on handheld when you want something that you can 
 just pick up and play for quick blast ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_bobbypin
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  well to start i love!!! the editing system! the Wi fi! the new game modes! the new weapons! such 
 as the holy handegrenade (known as the halleilughah bomb to some) sentry turret, buffalo of lies, 
 concrete donkey, lightning strike. and the new voices some even brought back from the past! Kamikazie, 
 US Spots, double oh seven, goofed, and drill seargent
  
  i fell in love with this game when i saw the amzing graphics, the great sound, and of course amazing 
 gameplay. i shure wasnt disapointed when i played it! its one of the best strategy games to date
 
  
  GOD BLESS THE PRODUCTION CREW!!!
  
  thomas_bobbypin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eyedunno1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  *note* I wrote this review a week or two ago, but after playing quite a bit more, I felt the need 
 to modify my opinion of the new hazards, and with it, my final score. Anyway, on to the review...
 
  
  Even as a huge fan of 2D Worms games, I was a little wary going into this one, due to the well-deserved 
 negative reception that the original W: OW game got. With Two Tribes developing this one though, 
 it turns out that I had no reason to be - the gameplay on this one meets or exceeds that of the 
 PC versions in almost all respects.
  
  I honestly don't see how any fan of Worms 2 or Worms: Armageddon could be any less than thrilled 
 with this outing, as all weapons and tools - including the ninja rope! - behave exactly as expected. 
 Fire a shotgun high on an opposing worm's head, and he'll slide backwards. Land a bazooka shot 
 on the ground in front of or behind a worm, and he'll go flying in the correct direction every 
 time. And jumping is useful and easy to control, unlike in the first game for the DS.
  
  The weapons selection, while not the most varied in the series, is more than adequate (many of 
 the weapons in previous games were useless anyway) . While some fans may miss the bungee, the flamethrower, 
 the baseball bat, or worm select, the game makes up for it to a certain extent by offering several 
 brand-new weapons. The Buffalo of Lies (referenced for years as the Concrete Donkey's nemesis) 
 replaces the mad cow, and is essentially a smaller version of the Concrete Donkey that travels 
 horizontally across terrain rather than vertically. Magnets can be used to attract or repel metal 
 weaponry and trigger mines. Sentry guns monitor their surroundings for enemy worms and cause massive 
 damage if an unlucky worm wanders too close. Boomerangs can be used to grab items or push worms, 
 and, as the name implies, they can be returned to the thrower's hand (and inventory) . They can 
 also be embedded in scenery, much like shots from the longbow in previous games. And lightning 
 strikes can revive dead worms, restore health, and alter sentry guns and magnets in the user's 
 favor.
  
  The one player modes, while a bit easy for the most part, will still provide hours of fun for most 
 players. There are three main modes, puzzle, campaign, and laboratory.
  
  In puzzle mode, players must use use their abilities, weapons, and items in creative ways to reach 
 exits, kill enemies, or collect item crates. Most puzzles are not all that difficult, but they're 
 still a lot of fun.
  
  Campaign mode is much like deathmatch mode in previous games, where players must kill all enemies 
 in predefined levels. For defeating bosses, players earn FMVs which they can watch at their leisure, 
 and many of these are very funny.
  
  Laboratory mode has three minigames: Blow, Blast, and Draw. In Blow, players must navigate to an 
 exit using a parachute, and blowing into the DS mic provides lift for the parachute. Blast uses 
 the stylus to target explosions on an otherwise immobile worm in order to move it around the level. 
 And Draw requires players to draw lines using a limited ink supply in order to manipulate the path 
 of a mine-launched worm.
  
  By completing single-player levels, credits are earned, and they can then be spent on items for 
 customization, locked weapons, and bonus one-player levels.
  
  Speaking of customization, this game is excellent in that respect. Aside from choosing names for 
 all your worms, you can choose colors, voices (from a respectable 25 voice schemes including many 
 classics from the PC games) , and gravestones, and there's a flag editor and level editor as well. 
 I have one small complaint about the flag editor though. Flags must be edited with the stylus, 
 which makes pixel-by-pixel editing much harder. Still, I've managed to make some flags that I'm 
 very satisfied with, though it took much longer that it would have if I could have used the d-pad.
 
  
  Finally, there's the multiplayer. Hotseat, single-cart, multicart, and wi-fi are all supported 
 to varying degrees. The performance in most of these modes is excellent, but ranked wi-fi matches 
 are terrible. Schemes are chosen at random, and most of the schemes contain some flaw that removes 
 most of the skill factor from the game. For instance, occasionally you'll get The Full Wormage, 
 which provides an infinite quantity of every weapon in the game, meaning that battles can usually 
 be won easily using only Concrete Donkeys. Other schemes can be unwinnable, such as one where each 
 team gets two blowtorches, no weapons, and item drops are insufficient. Fortunately though, other 
 wi-fi modes are fine, as they allow some degree of control over weapon schemes and other aspects 
 of play. I haven't tried non-wi-fi multiplayer modes, but I've heard they're all very playable, 
 with the exception of single-cart, where in certain circumstances, connections can be lost.
  
  Aside from issues with ranked matches, single-cart multiplayer, and the user-friendliness of 
 the flag editor, there are a few other weak points. The manual is in black and white and seems 
 rushed. The terrain vanishes completely when it's destroyed, unlike in previous games where a shadow 
 was left behind (which I preferred, as it gave a good sense of what's been blown up) . Some hazards 
 are really annoying at first - things like earthquakes and rising water levels happen occasionally 
 in some level types with only a one-turn warning for each team, which sometimes results in almost 
 complete annihilation. A little experience allows you to use these hazards strategically though, 
 so it's not a huge deal. And there are no girder-based levels, though I'm sure something similar 
 could be designed in the level editor, with long strips of regular ground in place of long girders.
 
  
  I'll end this review with a point-by-point analysis in the style of the old GameSpot reviews, which 
 seem to have recently become defunct.
  
  Gameplay - This game plays like a charm, and any Worms fan should be satisfied, but I will dock 
 a point for the horrific ranked match system. 9.
  
  Graphics - Just fine. I personally preferred the look of levels in Worms 2/Armageddon/World Party, 
 but on the other hand, the sprites look fantastic here. 9.
  
  Sound - This is a toughie. The music is pretty average, but it can be turned down or off entirely 
 in the options, and the voice selection is simply awesome. 8.
  
  Value - I'm in Japan, and I ordered the European version on eBay, and ended up spending probably 
 around US$60 for this. Still, I feel I got my money's worth, as this is an awesome game. And anyway, 
 it wouldn't be fair to assign this rating based on my special case. I guess I'd say that for Europeans, 
 this is an 8, and for Americans, this is a 9. I'll just round up the average. 9.
  
  Tilt - I love this game, but ranked matches will affect my tilt score a wee bit too. 9.
  
  
 Average score: 8.8 (but ugh, the new scoring system doesn't allow this, so I'll round up to 9.0) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Hope you didnt come for the story, because Worms games have never been big on that. However, there 
 are some little text snippets, as well as high-quality FMVs, sprinkled throughout the single-player 
 campaigns. But Worms is all about zany combat. Worms: Open Warfare 2 (OW2) is the second stab at 
 the franchise on the DS, and its the one youve been waiting for. If youre a fan of playing as 
 squishies who can serve up the hurt, this turn-based-strategy game is guaranteed to satisfy.
  
  Now, I wouldnt be terribly surprised if one or two of you arent yet familiar with the franchise 
  Worms has a sort of cult following  so let me lay it out for you. A typical Worms battle will 
 be between teams of about four worms. Those little rascals are armed and dangerous. They wield 
 bazookas, hand grenades, homing missiles  they can even radio in for an air strike! Worms also 
 have unique ways of getting around the landscape: ninja ropes, jack hammer, girders, jet pack, 
 parachute  there is truly a huge arsenal to select from, and thats always been a big part of 
 Worms appeal.
  
  For the single player, OW2 offers a variety of options: Puzzle, Campaign, Laboratory and Training. 
 Puzzle mode is a wonderful addition to OW2 that I dont recall seeing in any other Worms games 
 Ive played. The gist is that youre set on the landscape  usually with just one worm  and you 
 have to figure out how to either make it to the exit, or defeat whatever foes are there, using 
 only a select few items (or often none) and your wits. As the title suggests, each mission is a 
 puzzle that you have to figure out. Campaign mode: This is where youre likely to spend most of 
 your time when it comes to single-player gameplay. Most of the missions are straight-forward, death-match-type 
 fare, but each fifth mission is a sort of boss battle and it usually consists of something similar 
 to what youd find in Puzzle mode. Its a lot of fun and its certainly a good challenge.
  
  Next is the Laboratory, which is made up of three Experiments (or mini-game types) : Blow, 
 Blast and Draw. These are a lot more fun than I had anticipated. I normally dread any type of mini 
 game that requires you to blow into the DS mic, but Blow is so finely tuned that it requires only 
 minimal effort to waft your worm upward. See, your worm must travel from point A to point B with 
 nothing but a parachute. You have to blow whenever the worm requires lift. Its simple and surprisingly 
 entertaining. Blast is pretty much more of the same. However, rather than using a parachute and 
 your own hot air, you use explosives to propel your worm forward. By simply tapping on the touch 
 screen, you create an explosion. Youll need to tap at just the right spot to cause your worm to 
 blast in the necessary direction to get over peaks and crevasses. The last Experiment offered is 
 Draw: Id have to say, its my least favorite, though I can see it having appeal for puzzle fans. 
 This one presents you with a limited ink supply; with the ink, you must draw a line that will help 
 guide your worm to the exit; when you think youve got a good build, click a thumb icon to unleash 
 explosives on your worm. If youve set up your line just so, it should help in guiding the worm 
 safely to the exit.
  
  There is, of course, one last single-player option: Training. This is a greatly appreciated addition 
 to the game. Even if youre a Worms vet, things are done a little differently on the DS, so its 
 handy to have a tutorial that walks you through all the particulars. The Training mode is easy 
 to understand and guides you through the basics, allowing you to get down to business as quickly 
 as possible.
  
  Thats a lot of Worms so far, dontcha think? Yet its only the primer. Worms games have always 
 been about multiplayer, and we finally have a truly viable option on the DS. I never played the 
 first Open Warfare for the DS, but its my understanding that it wasnt much of a showing. The 
 main bummer for me  and why I didnt buy it  was that the game didnt offer online gameplay. 
 For DS-owning Worms fans, that was a major faux pa. OW2, however, has got the goods! To start with, 
 youve got three (or four if you count hot-seat play, which requires only one DS) main multiplayer 
 options: single-card, local multi-card, and Nintendo WiFi Connection. The single-card option, as 
 you might expect, offers a more limited selection of options, but hey, its still a great addition. 
 Multi-card, of course, gives you it all. However, finding other players nearby who also own the 
 game isnt easy for most DS owners. Thats where online play comes in. This is what its all about 
  pwning people online and struttin your stats via the online leader boards.
  
  There are three gameplay types when playing multiplayer: Death Match, Forts and Race. Death Match 
 is your standard Worms-for-all, where its all about the last worm slithering. You get a team of 
 four worms, and you can compete with up to three other players. Forts is an interesting alternative 
 in that it places teams in their own set locations, rather than having your worms randomly spread 
 throughout the landscape. This causes you to either really master your long-distance weapons, or 
 hatch a clever plan to infiltrate the enemy base. Lastly is Race. Ill be honest, I havent tried 
 it, but from the descriptionits a race. Last worm to the finish wins.
  
  Now, whatever multiplayer option you decide on, you get to vote on the scheme, which consists of 
 various weapons and utility options; a theme (background types, such as pirate, space, desert, 
 etc.) , each offering unique environmental conditions; and a landscape type  caverns, widespread 
 islands, etc. The weapons options could have perhaps been a bit more varied, but it could also 
 be argued that it wouldve just slowed down the process of getting a game going. However, theres 
 still a nice variety of options available to players in multiplayer gaming, and the matches are 
 a joy. Ive had zero lag online, and I mostly use the Worldwide setting (you can also choose Regional) . 
 There are, of course, disconnectors, but the developers have attempted to buffer the problem by 
 adding a disconnected stat to the leader boards. Shame is always a good tactic for helping to 
 prevent leavers. That said, the leader board seems to have some trouble determining who the actual 
 leaver is in one-vs.-one matches, and both players apparently get docked a point, regardless of 
 who actually left the game.
  
  And as good as the gameplay is, it is not without its quirks. For one, though the game allows for 
 you to move your worm for a few seconds after firing off a weapon, the camera often zips back over 
 to the worm you last attacked, making movement of your worm a blind proposition.
  
  Gripes in the multiplayer arena include the fact that youre forced to play three full rounds, 
 rather than affording you the option of simply doing a quickie. When each round can take up to 
 15-20 minutes, a full (three-round) match can become quite a long session for gaming on-the-go. 
 You also cant leave a match before it has started; once youve joined a match, youre in for the 
 long haul, lest you disconnect and tarnish your stats. Thats not great when you find yourself 
 with someone you know to be a leaver, or just someone you plain dont want to play with. You should 
 be given the option to back out before the match begins. None of these things Ive mentioned are 
 technical issues and I really cant say that Ive encountered any, though there has been some talk 
 about problems with the single-card multiplayer. I havent had an opportunity to test that option 
 out firsthand, so I cant comment on that. But these design issues are things I dont necessarily 
 care for, and I think theyre worth mentioning here.
  
  Graphics, Sound &amp; Overall Presentation
  
  So how does a Worms game look on the DS? It looks 
 great, considering the context of the game. Its worms were talkin about here. Truly, though, 
 the worms, themselves, look really cool  cute, silly and full of personality. The levels are made 
 up of 2-D landscapes on top of 3-D backgrounds. The 3-D graphics look very nice  cel-shaded with 
 smooth texturing. The landscapes are attractive, too, but in some cases they are merely repetitious 
 patterns kind of melded together. The landscapes in Forts matches, however, are really beautiful, 
 hand-drawn fortresses. The explosions and smoke clouds: awesome!
  
  One thing I think many Worms fans overlook, however  and something this game does especially well 
  is the sound. What excellent music! What excellent sound effects! Something Ive noticed about 
 Worms games in general is that the developers have a clever way of masking the musical loops. They 
 use a lot of dynamics (the apparent volume of sound) to keep the music right where it should be 
  covertly supporting the gameplay. At one moment you hear nothing but a light beat in the background, 
 and the next moment the house starts a`rockin. It just adds so much to the quirky yet almost cinematic 
 nature of Worms. Of course, theres nothing more satisfying than the sound of a bazooka blasting 
 off toward a lone worm, exploding the enemy up into the air, and then hearing that final plop as 
 it hits the drink. No respect! Huh? You say something? Oh yeah, these worms talk. Accents abound 
 in OW2, as is traditional with the franchise. Irish, Brooklyn, some kind of robotic voicetons 
 of silly selections for you to choose from, and the things these worms choose to say  its hilarious!
 
  
  The last thing Id like to make mention of is the games overall presentation. When you add everything 
 up that Worms: Open Warfare 2 has to offer, this game is giving you a lot for your buck. The menus 
 are attractive and easy to navigate; at the beginning of any mission or multiplayer game, you get 
 a little random tip; and though the game does include a manual, youll never need to use it, because 
 the in-game tutorials and Training mode offer everything you need to get started. Theres a Quick 
 Play option that will instantly create a random game against an AI team, or theres a Custom Game 
 option to allow you to set things up just the way you want them. Additionally, you can create your 
 own maps, using a landscape editor. You can customize teams, selecting from available voices, skin 
 colors and so on. You can edit schemes to create your own types of gameplay. And you can also create 
 your own flag designs. Then theres the Options section, which consists of yet more good stuff: 
 a Medal Cabinet that holds all the medals youve earned from single-player (and in some cases, 
 multiplayer) , as well as an option to send a demo of the game to another nearby DS owner. Theres 
 the Help section and Introduction Wizard  both useful aids in understanding the many gameplay 
 options. Last is the shop. Throughout your single-player career, youll earn credits. Use those 
 credits to purchase new skin colors for your worms, new accents, new victory dances (oh yeah!) , 
 gravestones, additional campaigns  tons of stuff!
  
  And thats Worms: Open Warfare 2 in a gigantic nutshell. Simply put, its awesome. Is it just for 
 Worms fans? Heck no! It will take some time to master the use of all the various weapons and utilities 
  Im no pro, myself, and Ive been playing Worms for a while  but the pay-off is huge. OW2 is 
 silly, its irreverent and its great fun. Its also a lot of game for your dollar. Id have to 
 say that the game offers what is probably the most enjoyable and extensive online play Ive experienced 
 on the DS. JUMP Ultimate Stars (an import fighting game) comes close, but, unfortunately, most 
 random battles in that game are with players from overseas, therefore the battles often lag something 
 fierce. OW2 is well paced, well implemented and should offer players endless enjoyment. Thanks 
 for reading, and happy gaming!
  
  The Breakdown
  
  Presentation / 8.5
  Did they miss anything? I think not. You get in-game instructions, a shop, a landscape editor, 
 tons of gameplay options, excellent cutscenes that are sprinkled throughout the single-player campaignsthe 
 list goes on and on. But there are some things I had an issue with, as far as the multiplayer is 
 concerned: no ability to back out of a match before it has started, as well as no option to play 
 just a single round.
  
  Graphics / 8.5
  A perfect fit for this game, and the smoke clouds and explosions are especially nice-looking on 
 the DS. Some of the landscape patterns are a bit repetitious, but overall the game looks great.
 
  
  Sound / 10
  In my opinion, the unsung hero of the Worms franchise. Great worm accents; awesome musical themes!
 
  
  Gameplay / 8.5
  The game offers excellent features and a huge selection of weapons. Love the Laboratory games. 
 And something I failed to mention in the actual review: the games AI is ruthless and precise. 
 Worms 3D had AI that was dumber than a doughnut. The opposite is true with OW2. Its a great challenge 
 and lots of fun, but there are a few quirks that may not agree with some folks. Weapons like the 
 Concrete Donkey can make for some extreme cheapness.
  
  Replay Value / 9.5
  Only if this game could make you a sandwich could it possibly be any better in this department. 
 There are tons of single-player options that are mostly all fun, and there are tons of multiplayer 
 options that are all fun. The mini games are great  no fillers. And the customization features 
 seal the deal, allowing you endless hours of creative noodling.
  
  Overall / 9
  A Worms masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewh94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Worms Open Warfare 2 is a normal Worms game which is better than other worms game. Worms Open Warfare 
 2 lets you design your own map using you r stylus making bridges, bunkers, towns and others. Plus, 
 there is also the SINGLE PLAYER campaign which let players fight wars like WW1, WW2 , Cold War 
 and others in their own specific theme. In every war/campaign, there will be a boss and you have 
 to defeat him to go to the next level. Whenever you start a new campaign, they will show you a very 
 funny, silly cut scene/video about how your worm/worm team gets to the next campaign. In this game, 
 there are 3 new weapons which are Donkey, Buffalo of Lies and Bunker Buster. These are very powerful 
 weapons and very very cool and destructive weapon. I do not want to list what they do because I 
 wish not to spoil the game for you.
  
  Very good game including its intro and music. Get this game and it will definitely satisfy you! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super_namek
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Like everyone knows, the first instalment of the series, was kind of lame. But it looks like Team 
 17 heard our call! This time around, even though the worms are small, they're big enough to see 
 their facial expressions and so on. Speaking of graphics, the backgrounds and the maps are nicely 
 detailed and the animations are crisp sharp. It may feel a bit jam packed on the screen sometimes, 
 but it's the DS, so they didn't have much of a choice. The idea of having the choice between putting 
 the upper screen in map mode or in gameplay mode was the best one, the upper screen greatly enhences 
 the gameplay.
  
  Let's talk a bit more about the gameplay. This time around, the ninja rope and the other gadgets 
 work just like a charm. Aiming and firing work just fine. The only complaint here is the lack of 
 a zoom mode... but ok.... I mean.. it would've been pretty small when you would've zoomed back but 
 still. But on the bright side it does add a bit of challenge. I've played it 7 hours so far and 
 it didn't cause me much problems. It takes a couple of games before you get used to the buttons, 
 but it gets alright after that. (not before you shoot yourself or lose a turn of course = ( ) Soundtrack 
 and Sound effects.... Lol! Marvelous! All my fav. voice samples are there!! Cyberworms, Scotish, 
 etc! The soundtrack is good, but it can get a bit repetitive sometimes! The replay value on that 
 kind of title is infinite. The map editor is suprizingly well done. So making maps is a bit long, 
 but you don't get frustrated because you don't know how to do something. The campains are long 
 and well balanced and the quick games are always there when you wanna do a quick one before you 
 go to bed! Hell, you can even ask a friend to play on the same DS. It's a bit cramped up, but it 
 can be fun! The AI is just what you expect from worms. Either dumbass, a bit clumbsy or deadly! 
 The multiplayer, is just cool! Playing against someone else in the world is lots of fun already, 
 but the fact that it plays smoothly is even better. The mini-games are fun to play, but I wouldnt've 
 bought a game with only those, but it's always nice to play them! Flag design, team design, they 
 thought about everything!
  
  The best weapons are there, the worms are there... get ready for some serious wormy carnage!! If 
 you like worm, jump on this title. If you're not familiar with worms, you still have to buy it!
 
  
  INCOMING!!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
