-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Worms: Open Warfare
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/worms/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Takes worms back to its 2D roots.
 More accessible than most strategy games.
 Four people can play off one cart.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Pretty stingy selection of modes.
 Fewer weapons than in previous Worms games.
 Stylus controls are awkward.
 Weapon physics don't feel right.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 6.3, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 345 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Team 17
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date: Mar 22, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Clumsy controls, rocky presentation, and a dearth of gameplay options hinder Worms' return to 2D 
 on the DS. 

  Team17 has been trying to bring Worms, its rambunctious strategy series, into the realm of 3D for 
 a few years now. Some efforts have been more successful than others, but none have fully replicated 
 the chaotic glee of the 2D original. It's a relief, then, that Worms: Open Warfare for the PlayStation 
 Portable and Nintendo DS opts for the classic gameplay that made the series a success in the first 
 place. The game is a great fit on the PSP, and the widescreen perspective complements the large, 
 horizontally oriented level designs nicely. By contrast, the DS version is awkward and ugly and 
 generally fails to capture the feel of Worms.  

          Worms returns to its 2D roots for the first time since 2001's Worms World Party.     

 
  There's a good amount of baggage attached to strategy games. Turn-based wargames can feel dense 
 and abstract -- like chess with a god complex -- and the modern real-time strategy game is thick with 
 years of genre convention buildup. The whole genre often feels impenetrable to those who haven't 
 been immersed in it for years. It can be intimidating, but Worms has always offered a much looser, 
 more accessible take on strategy. There's no resource gathering, no tech trees, and no unit balance 
 issues -- just a bunch of worms sitting on a big rock, taking turns enthusiastically trying to murder 
 each other. In Worms: Open Warfare, you're given a team of four cute, anthropomorphic worms and 
 then pitted against up to three other teams of worms, and winning is a simple matter of whittling 
 down your opponents' health before they can eliminate you.  

  The worms themselves are deceptively cute, with wide eyes and a wide, multicultural array of squeaky 
 battle cries. They also have access to an arsenal of potent weapons, ranging from shotguns and 
 hand grenades to deadly bananas and exploding sheep. There are more than 20 different weapons you 
 can arm your worms with, which sounds like a lot but is actually pretty lean by series standards. 
 How you use what you've got, though, is the main strategic element at work here. Some weapons work 
 only when you're going toe-to-toe with an opponent, while ranged weapons give you a bit of security 
 against immediate retaliation. The ranged weapons, such as bazookas and grenades, are also tough 
 to use effectively, as you're given only a rough idea of the trajectory, which can be hugely affected 
 by the winds. The nuanced ways in which the different weapons work give the action a measure of 
 depth, but they're mostly intuitive enough that the game remains easy to pick up.  

  The battlefields can be pretty big in comparison to the worms, and hazardous too, with lots of 
 craggy terrain, sheer cliffs, exploding barrels, and touchy land mines. With the camera zoomed 
 in pretty tight it can be tough to get your bearings, which can lead to poorly aimed shots and 
 accidental team kills. This is mitigated on the PSP with the option to zoom in and out using the 
 shoulder buttons, which lets you take in almost the entire map on a single screen or get up close 
 and personal with your worm. The solution on the DS is less elegant and less useful; you're given 
 a paltry amount of zoom control and are required to use the stylus to drag the camera around a 
 minimap on the lower screen to see areas beyond your active worm's immediate surroundings on the 
 upper screen.  

  It's an uncomfortable game to play on the DS because of its use of both the stylus and the traditional 
 controls, requiring you to switch back and forth between the two on a near constant basis. The 
 game also looks pretty bad on the DS, with lots of chunky, pixilated sprites and textures, while 
 the PSP version looks relatively crisp and clean, with richer colors and more detail. What really 
 kills the DS version, though, is that the gameplay doesn't  feel  right. Movement feels stilted 
 and worms can get hung up pretty easily on pieces of the environment, and the physics on a lot 
 of the weapons are exaggerated, which can lead to frustration when a well-thrown grenade hits its 
 mark, only to then bounce wildly away into the drink or, worse, next to one of your own worms. 

          It's hard to believe the PSP and DS versions were made by the same developer.     

 
  There aren't a lot of ways to play Worms: Open Warfare, though again, the PSP gives you a few 
 more options than the DS. You can jump into a quick one-off fight against a random opponent on 
 a randomly generated battlefield, or you can create your own custom game, defining the theme of 
 the level, the level layout, and the participating teams. If you're looking for a bit more structure, 
 there's a challenge mode that pits you against a series of increasingly tough and cunning opponents. 
 There's some basic multiplayer support for up to four players as well. Both versions have the same 
 modes of play, but there are some subtle differences that give the advantage to the PSP; for instance, 
 though you can edit the teams in both versions, only the PSP version lets you create a whole new 
 team, and the PSP version offers a more granular level of customization when creating your own 
 game.  

  Neither version of Worms: Open Warfare is particularly ambitious, and you get the feeling that 
 Team17 is simply testing the waters to see if there's still a demand for an old-fashioned 2D Worms 
 game. DS owners get a pretty raw deal here, and the game is too rife with poor design decisions 
 and unattractive execution to make it recommendable to anyone. If you've got a PSP, though, and 
 you're looking for some light and breezy strategy fun, Worms: Open Warfare hits its mark.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: chapnzaba
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Worms: Open warfare 1 (i have number 2, it's so much better than the first one) on the PSP was 
 a great game! I played the DS version once and wanted to punch nintendo in the face. The graphics 
 weren't as good as PSP and the touch screen was hard to use other than the PSP anolog stick counterpart. 
 The game itself is relativly the same as the PSP one, but there are so many more glitches and messy 
 crap with controls and stuff. If you own both a PSP and DS and wanna get worms, buy it for the 
 PSP and shove your DS down a sewer pipe. (I like the DS, but this was a horrible example for the 
 DS and Nintendo.) i agree with Gamespot on this one (i usually don't agree with gamespot nowadays) , 
 this game was completly mediocre. Also they did well on Worms: Open Warfare 2 on the DS, it was 
 like the PSP. (Worms 2 for PSP is great! I should write a review on it too...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meowcow22
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  It's not an awful game or a great game but an average game. It's multiplayer is boring but single 
 player is ok actually. I've not played it all that much but it still has all the classic weapons 
 with good 2d levels and 4 teams is working well for me. I like most of the gameplay as well no 
 glitches with the camera work as far as I can tell it's above average but no higher. I like the 
 fact that you can make your own team that's enjoyable too it's a good game. Not the best graphics 
 but that's not the point of worms: open warfare the point was to bring worms to the ds and it's 
 done an ok job. meowcow22 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ceafer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Its Great to see worms back in 2D that was the way the game was meant to be, the only problem with 
 the NDS version of this game is it appears to be a bodge! I've got a version of this game on my 
 phone and i get more pleasure out of that! Its still a good game but it is very basic with a lot 
 of the really funny weapons missing (i. e. concrete donkey and super sheep) plus the view of the 
 game is like looking though a key hole and when you need to aim at a worm out of view it becomes 
 very hard to line up. I am thinking of getting worms open warfare 2 but it will be on PSP defiantly 
 not the NDS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gardevoir_1993
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  The Good: Old-skool Worms, Decent weapons, Campaign can be challenging
  
  The Bad: Needs an update on weapons, Too short, Not too engaging
  
  Full Review: Worms: Open 
 Warfare gives veteran Worms players the oppurtunity to experience their old WORMS (PS) on the next-gen 
 consoles. Unfortunately, they stuck too strictly to this ideal and it has not been updated even 
 to WORMS Armageddon standard. It is also a bit short and doesn't engage the player too much. While 
 the weapons remain fun to use, they have been slightly toned down. However, veteran gamers will 
 enjoy the experience of their original WORMS being re-released. Having said that, it is unlikely 
 that more recent gamers will get more than an hour of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenmachine05
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 8, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I was a little disappointed when I first played this game, but it did grow 
 on me. Being a fan of turn based fighting games, I couldn't pass it up. Here's my look on the game:
 
  
  Gameplay: Sometimes the gameplay can leave you clueless. It can be gard at times to tell who you 
 are playing as and when it's your turn, but if that can be looked past, the rest of the game has 
 that classic Worms feel to it that makes it great. 7/10
  
  Graphics: Not.. too... great. In fact this game has some of the worst graphics of a DS game so far. 
 Luckily, it's not bad enough to ruin the feel of the game. 6/10
  
  Sound: The music is alright, but the voices of the little worms are just ridiculous. These guys 
 sport little British accents saying things like Oooh, look, reinforcements! and You are going to 
 regret that one! Not so good in the sound department. 6/10
  
  Value: Although it seems as though this game has no lasting value, it will grow on you eventually 
 making it worth your money. All you have to do is try to look past the faults that aren't a big 
 deal to your gameplay anyways. 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bansheerpg
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  The Worms series holds back to 1983 when the first Worms game was released on the C64. Fourteen 
 years later, Worms 2 was released. It wasn't long before nine other Worms games followed until 
 now, and made Worms one of the greatest series ever.
  Unfortunately, even the greatest can slip. This is what happened after the release of the DS version 
 of Worms Armageddon : Open Warfare. It sure isn't a bad game, but isn't a success either. Open 
 Warfare is a 2D combat strategy game wich lets you play as hilarious Worms. The goal of the game 
 is to decimate the enemy team, usually composed of about five members, without having your own 
 team decimated. The action is done in turns. Every worm will attack at a time, switching teams 
 every turn of course, in a limited period of time. Before reach an opponent, there are a couple 
 of things to consider. First, the desrtuctible environment, which will usually get in your way. 
 Secondly, the wind, which will affect the speed and direction of a missile or any other throwable 
 object. And finally, water, which will be raising every turn (bare in mind that even worms can 
 drawn) . There are a lot of different and varied weapons and items to choose from in Open Warfare. 
 They range from sinple fists to bazzokas, from grenades to sheeps and so on.
  Open Warfare features four game modes: Quick Game, Create Game, Challenges, and Multiplayer. Most 
 of the choices above actually seem very alike and make every other mode seem almost useless. The 
 Quick Game mode lets you play as a team of your choice in a randomly generated world with random 
 opponents. It sure is useful when the player is in a hurry... altough it's completely useless to 
 play a strategy game in theses conditions. The Create Game mode is very similar to the Quick Game 
 mode. The only noticeable difference between the two is that the game lets you choose in what kind 
 of randomly generated world you will play and so on. The campaign mode on it's side is probably 
 the greatest part of Open Warfare. It will let you play as a team of your choice in specific levels 
 against specific opponents. Theses challenges appear in great numbers and usually manage to give 
 the player a good and enjoyable gameplay experience.
  The audio and graphic areas are probably where Open Warfare does worst. Even tough the game features 
 a lot of sound effects and a couple of different sound tracks, they usually are of poor quality. 
 At least, theses usually fit the game's ambience or style. The game's graphics, even tough they 
 feel unique and funny, suffer from the same lack of quality.
  
  Worms Armageddon : Open Warfare probably won't satisfy the tastes of a strategy addict. Still, 
 if you are a fan of the series, or looking for an enjoyable and simple strategy game, you might 
 get a great deal out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F2bnp
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I am a big Worms fan, I still have the first one released in 1995 in it's box, so as you may understood 
 I really awaited Worms Open Warfare. But it turned out to be a disappointment. Why? You will learn 
 why.
  
  Gameplay 6/10
  
  Well it is like the old good Worms but there are many weapons missing, there are many bugs (like 
 getting stuck and cannot move) and yet it has not the Worms feeling. Also there is NO campaing!!!
 
  
  Graphics 3/10
  
  Total disappointment here. When I heard it was going to be on 2D I was really happy. But the result 
 was low resolution sprites and messed up graphics. Too bad, why didn't they use the Worms 2, Armageddon, World 
 Party sprites for the worms?
  
  Sound 7/10
  
  Ok this is ok. The soundtrack is nice and the music too. I'm glad they could include voices in the 
 game, because Worms without voices SUCKS.
  
  Value 4/10
  
  I don't think it's worth the money you might finish it in 1 - 2 hours.
  
  Tilt 1/10
  
  
 No story, no online mode, gameplay, no nothing...
  
  Just wait for Worms Open Warfare 2 to be released and then see if it's good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  I really do think Worms: Open Warfare ain't as bad as they say it is. I admit the graphics are 
 a bit weird but I'm the person who thinks gameplay is better than graphics so read my review if 
 you want to know more about the game.
  
  Gameplay: I give gameplay a 7. I wouldve given it a higher score but the AI in the game are idiots. 
 They simply kill themselves or waste your time. They even go right up to the edge of the waters 
 and drown themselves. But multiplayer is fun, I played with my friends and we seemed to have a 
 lot of fun messing with it.
  
  Graphics: Graphics gets a 6 from me. The background graphics look really nice but the worms look 
 terrible. They look like pink blobs firing weapons. They don't look like worms at all. Team 17 
 couldve done better but I just dont know why they made it what it is now.
  
  Sound: I give sound a 6. The intro music ain't bad but it really just repeats itself and gets boring 
 real fast. Music ingame is alright. I quite like it. The voices of the worms are also alright. 
 You can choose from a variety of voices like in the other worms games.
  
  Value: Im not so sure if a lot of people out there are willing to pay for a game like this. I managed 
 to get this game in Hong Kong for 320 Hong Kong dollars and I think its quite a good deal so I 
 give value 6.
  
  Tilt: All in all, I really like this game. It's a shame that theres not a lot of weapons though 
 and the AI is pathetic. If Team 17 were to make another worms game then they should fix all the 
 problems in this game.
  
  Well thats my review from my point of view. Hope it helps people when choosing whether to buy this 
 game or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobberry
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I thought, it was a great game, until i found out the game spot review was right, this game sucks 
 badly
  
  Graphics: horrible, gotta tell you, if your walking a worm, its feels really slow and guess what, 
 IT IS REALLY SLOW!, what a waste of time.
  
  Game play: all wrong, wrong, wrong because the damage system is horrible, it suck and yes the multiplayer, 
 i think the makers of this game is really lazy because there is only TWO rounds for it
  
  Sound: actually one of them that same the game, its pitiful to hear it but the slang language for 
 multiplayer is great but others are useless including German, French or robot talk.
  
  rent or Buy: Dont even think about it, its horrible
  
  Overall:3.4 Worst game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatMan2121
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games ive ever played man. plus it dont take that long to get to kno 
 how to play it u just need to learn the buttons. much people think this game sucks but i dont kno 
 what thay sayin cause game good fo psp and ds. I think ds is kindof better cause touch screen but 
 i cant decind. Oh well but game i dont kno why people givin it a bad review maybe paople just looked 
 at the screenshots but they maybe never played it. people who haved played it and hated it i do 
 got a problem all im sayin is i think the game is visous 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndyWilliams24
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  First a retro classic, molded into a variety of shapes and games. Some have been instant classics. 
 Some have been on the other end of the table. But which side will Worms Open Warefare be?
  
  THQ hit gold when Worms was first released. But with all the glory they felt a sequel to Worms 
 was the only option. But as more and more were made, the level of quality may have been sliding.
 
  
  Worms Open Warefare, was the step forward. It was its first major portable Worms game. So with 
 this they had to make this one count. After one of there biggest blow to the Worms series, making 
 it 3D. They must have felt, with Open Warefare it was back to basics.
  
  The graphics in this game, are decent enough. Although if your looking for graphicals that will 
 leave you in ore. This game isnt advised for you. While the graphics arent thats bad. There not 
 what the DS is capable of. When looking at games that use its full potential. It will leave you 
 perplexed as to why the full graphical extent wasnt used here..
  
  Another slight let down here is the sound. Although it plays the same selected playlist through 
 out the game. Thats not were the sound is let down. The fact that the worms dont mutter a word, 
 is in my opinion a crutial blow. In all the previous Worm games, as your team gets hit with a weapon 
 or a unforgiven missile. You would hear a little scream, or cry for help by the worm in need. But 
 in this game it seems they have scrapped that idea. And kept them silent. Althought the weapon 
 sounds and effects are pretty impressive, its just not the same without getting in depth with your 
 worms, as you lead them to victory.
  
  Gameplay wise this game has great potential. It has all the game modes you could ask for. It has 
 a main story board. Which consists of 30 mission objectives, and as you climb up the ladder. The 
 challenges get pregressingly difficult. Which will in more than one ocassion leave your worms out 
 numbered or outmatched, or in a prodicement which will involve using long term strategy, and not 
 rushing in for the kill.
  
  The controls could do with a bit or a tweak, they can cause to be a bit awkward and fiddly at times. 
 Which could leave you very frustrated, and agetated. Which is not a good thing to experiance in 
 a game. But if you feel you can adapt to game controls. Or find no harm in controls others think 
 are awkward. You will have no problem with this game. But if you do mind these things. You may 
 need a bit of patience with this one..
  
  But this game truely shines with its multiplayer functions. You can connet to 3 other Nintendo 
 DS's and play a deathmatch. Which is a good feature seeing as you can do this over download play. 
 With only one game card. The A. I is also a thing Team17 should have improved. At times your oponents 
 will just freeze a little. And stand still, motionless untill the turn limit has been reached. 
 This can happen quite a few times in one match also. How could have Team17 have missed this one?
 
  
  There is a wide veriaty of weapons in this game. Some have been reborn from past Worms games. And 
 some have been freshly squeezed from the minds of Team17's design squad. Theres about 20 overall 
 weapons, so there's bound to be at least one that will fit into your twisted plans of destruction. 
 Or you could simply send the sheep of war, into enemy lines. And inflict 100 health points worth 
 of wooly destruction.
  
  This is one of those games, that you would pick up on a bus or a long car ride. Its not a game 
 that will keep you occupaid for a long period of time. Its a game to help pass the time. As is 
 why Quick match, is probably the most commonly used feature in this game.
  
  But if you know a friend of a younger sibling who would play multiplayer with you. That makes the 
 game more playable. The multiplayer is a key factor in this game. But in its own sense, it is a 
 game that is great to purchase if you have a long wait ahead, such as a plane ride, or a holiday. 
 So grab a copy, grab a friend and get firing behing enemy lines.
  
  So all in all, this game has redeemed Worms from its past 3D counterparts. But beraly.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajr101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  OK this game is not as good as armegaddon which to me was and still is teh best worms game. But 
 pushing that aside this is a GREAT game i mean it has a good replay value (what worms game doesnt) 
 Also the graphics arent the best but still Ok for the ds. The game never glitches for me i never 
 get stuck in terrain or anything. My main problem is with the AI sometimes it is really dumb and 
 jumps off the land into water. BUt it is solved by making teh difficulty settings higher usually 
 that works. The multiplayer in this game IS SOOOO FUN. my brother and i play all teh time and have 
 a great timefilled with laughter. The deaths ARe so funny epescially when we go crazy with banana 
 bombs&gt; SO if you liek worms games its not the best but its still a great time pick this up (this 
 is one if the fews times i have really disagreed with Gamespot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaManX9101
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 12, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I needed something new for the DS, and I've always wanted to try worms, so I thought I would get 
 it. I've never played a Worms game before, but I'm quite impressed with how fun I've had with this. 
 I've seen all these hardcore Worms players complain about it though...
  
  Pros +really easy to get into. Pretty easy to just jump into a quick game and figure it out. +simple 
 controls. Not much to explain to people. The weapons are pretty self explanatory and you need to 
 experiment with them anyway to use them effectively +fast multi-player. Not a lot of time to download 
 which is a HUGE plus in my case. I normally don't have a lot of time to wait for the game to load 
 which normally takes a while. The previous points also help out. +good replay value. There isn't 
 a story so it doesn't really have an end. A good game to just pick up and play a few rounds. +random 
 map generator. You can't just plan it out. You have to make a plan on the spot, making COUNTLESS 
 strategies that will never be the same more than once... most of the time. ;) +a classic part of 
 Worms: The voices. Ah... can't believe I almost forgot this one. Gotta love the voice overs and 
 commentary. :D +The weapons. Take out the other worms with a strange arsenal of weapons. Anything 
 from bazookas to exploding sheep...
  
  Cons -Poor Graphics. Play it for the game play, not graphics. everything is pretty low quality, 
 and the menus are pretty bland. -Useless Zoom. The zoom is pretty useless. It barely moves out 
 at all making it hard to make accurate shots with the bazooka and such. -Pretty strange grenades. 
 Grenades are TOTALLY UNPREDICTABLE! They bounce in some of the strangest ways... be warned. -Slow 
 and Strange AI. I'm not sure if this has always haunted worms, but it seemed like it took a while 
 for the worms to figure out what to do. They also take some suicidal shots into near by walls and 
 such.
  
  Summary I guess if you have never played a worms game, this is the best thing since sliced bread 
 but I guess the pros feel like its just a poor imitation of the originals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 3.1
Date: Sep 4, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  I loved the Worms 2D PC games. But this atrocity is just unfitting. The PSP game was much better 
 and I still didn't like it. Let me get down to it right now. Its not the same.
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  Stripped down worms. You get few choices for weapons, and aim considering wind 
 at the enemy worms. Usually this wouldn't be boring, except the maps suck, the graphics... let 
 me get to that now. Anyway, old weapons aren't even as fun as before. Most strategy in blowing 
 items up is taken away too. Plus the touch screen controls are tacked on, except for weapon choices.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Worms have never been graphics intensive, but these are the absolutely worst graphics ever. Sprites 
 don't resemble worms, explosions are pitiful. I expected much better from the DS. It should be 
 able to handle the original worms game without problems. The backdrops were colorful, but still 
 nothing like what the DS can handle.
  
  SOUND
  
  The voices are still entertaining, and they still repetitive, but the amount of voice packs are 
 impressive, even if the amount of voices in each are pitiful. Music is lacking for most parts as 
 well. I didn't hear in battle music even.
  
  VALUE
  
  Barely any weapons... Bare bones multiplayer with no fun included. Yeah, plenty of value. To be 
 fair, the multiplayer is single cart and fun for ONE round.
  
  TILT
  
  No grab, no story... no fun.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Some people like this game, I don't know if 
 I'm playing the game game. If you like this game though, please PM me and tell me how this even 
 resembles fun. I will not spam you back, I am just looking for a second view on this particular 
 game. Overall, worst DS game... gameplay wise at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uncle_cheddar
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  If anyone has ever played Worms Armageddon, then you would understand why I was disappointed. I 
 liked the game, but it just wasn't up to my standards. It's so bleak, and plain. No story or anything 
 (not that a story would make much sense) . The only missions with goals other than to kill all the 
 other worms, is the training, and that just tells you how to do different things. It's an awesome 
 game, but not what it could be. I'm gonna give it a 10/10, because I'm a major pushover, and it 
 was still a really fun game that I still play. I just want those people out there expecting something 
 more from this than it can give, you might be disappointed. I would buy it, just don't get to excited 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anaisa3
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 26, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Definitely not the worst game for the DS but it is a letdown. 
  
  I considered getting this game for the PSP console but I thought that it might be better with the 
 touchscreen on the DS. 
  I liked the scenes, the worms are the same as usual and the weapons are familiar. I like the fact 
 that you can use the touchscreen to choose your weapon and that you can somewhat customize the 
 teams. But it was all lacking. I feel that this game didn't utilize the two screens enough. I was 
 hoping for something new.. like some new weapons or well.. something!.. Overall I am disappointed 
 with the game. I don't think that it completely sucks but it won't hold your attention that long. 
 I recommend it for use in between games. When you're stuck on a level and you need a break... pick 
 up worms and blow something up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WORMZFAN229
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 27, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  cmon team 17! the ds can do more than this! you guys are fscking lazy!!! the ds can handle fully 
 3d games like mario 64, but you cant get your little 2d worms to show up without making just blobs 
 of pixels. I was excited for this game, and i should have known that something like this would 
 happen as soon as i saw the screens. Also, there are no superweapns!!! goddamn they're lazy!!! 
 if you said that the 3d worms games are bad (and they aren't great) you will love them after you 
 play this piece of shi7. thanks team 17! 
  
  AND FU (l  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benzoate1
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 26, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I play Worms Armageddon with my friends, even to this day over Hamachi on my PC. This version is 
 not very good, the graphics are ugly and pixelated, the ninja rope handles appalling, the AI is 
 as smart as my best mate (not very) and the overall presentation of the game is abysmal. For example, 
 I just played a challenge, the 6th one I think and I had to wait 60 seconds twice because their 
 worm just stood there not moving, occasionally they seem to walk one pixel, wait 5 seconds then 
 walk another pixel, which is equally as annoying. The physics also seem very messed up, its like 
 the grenades are made from those rubber balls which bounce 50 feet in the air when you drop them. 
 I bought this game for my holiday, but I don't want to even take it with me its so bad. The game 
 needs a patch, but since its on a DS it cant really be patched so just don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shabulia
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  Worms has been around for a while now and has made appearances on several systems. Now it makes 
 its appearance on the DS and, in my opinion, does so fairly well. In all honesty I don't understand 
 why someone wouldn't like this game.
  
  To those of you that are unfamiliar with this series, let me shed a little light. This is a strategy 
 game that pits teams of cartoony looking worms against each other. Your job is to destroy the other 
 teams with weapons that are provided like shotguns, bazookas, and kamikaze suicide attacks. It's 
 loads of fun and has a great strategy element to it. Also, it is a perfect multiplayer game. The 
 worms are loaded with personality as they can be given custom accents and make comments throughout 
 the battle. Imagine cartoony angry scots worms fighting with a cartoon land mine and you get the 
 idea of this game's charm.
  
  The DS version of the game utilizes both screens very well. The top screen is where you see your 
 worms and battlegrounds while the bottom screen is used for selecting weapons with the stylus. 
 The stylus can also be used to navigate your view on the top screen so you can aim a little better. The 
 buttons are used to attack, jump and zoom in or out. Using the stylus and the buttons together 
 works really well for me. You have a nice selection of weapons at your disposal and up to four 
 other DS systems can link together playing off of one cart. It's a multiplayer dream of a strategy 
 game and works very well on the DS.
  
  The sounds and graphics are really what you would expect from a 2D Worms game. The game doesn't 
 really look or sound any better than it did ten years ago. But since it never looked bad in the 
 first place and since 2D has aged better than many 3D games, it all works rather well together. 
 The only complaint I have with the DS version is you occasionally run into a few (very few) graphic 
 glitches on the battle field. But really it isn't often enough to get too upset about. On the DS, 
 the game looks and plays great. You can customize teams of worms by re-naming each worm and the 
 whole team name to suit your personality. Multiplayer is a blast and I really like using the stylus 
 to select my weapons. It's just plain fun.
  
  The DS version of the game plays really well in my book. I just don't agree with the Gamespot review 
 of this game. I have had a lot of fun with it already and probably will when I play with my friends. 
 This game isn't terribly deep and it won't keep you immersed like an RPG. It's just a fun little 
 multiplayer strategy game and it fills that role very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OGjossy
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 16, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  
  This game has been rushed out you can make your own team as normal but it doesn't make the game 
 better, at first i did a normal match and first thing i thought was wheres the weopen set, it is 
 a very poor weopen set.
  
  There are challenges which you can do with your team, there are 3 tutorials, but then you go on 
 to the proper challenges
  you pass challenge number 20 and thats them all done they aren't even hard i can tell this game 
 has been rushed out because if it wasn't there would be atleast 50 challenges.
  
  Worms fans you will be ashamed if you buy this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  Going back to the original 2D side-scrolling of the original Worms series is a great idea. The 
 3D games (for the most part) just don't hold in comparison to the original) .
  Sounds are awesome, with good tunes and classic voices.
  You only need one DS game cart to 
 load up the game in multiplayer. That's a good idea since most people I know don't have the same 
 games I own.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  Graphics are broken and feel generic. The screen randomly loses refresh rate and the animations 
 are a total of like 3. It feels like they didn't even try. Take Worms 2's graphics and mix it with 
 the original.
  Boring gameplay. Downright boring. I put it away after one game and I usually play a Worms game 
 for a few months straight.
  The aiming system is weak and broken as well. Basically, when you shoot a shotgun, stuff just 
 happens. There's no animation for it. It's just "Blame! Dead.". The aiming seems to not match where 
 you're aiming most of the time either.
  
  :Overall:
  This game will entertain me for a day, but I think tomorrow I'm gonna trade it in and get Tetris 
 DS or Mario Kart DS. It's for Worms fanatics only, but even then, I'd wait for the bargain bin. 
 Try again, Team17! I still support you guys!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magedhamdy
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  god this is the worst game i got on the ds so far.
  If you loved loved all the previouse worm games and your a devoted fan....
  DONT GET THIS GAME 
 instead use your money on something goood like the new sb or else you will be sorry. the only little 
 thing thats good here is its one of the only ds multiplayer games in the world with one ds only. 
 But there was so many let downs like bad graphics, less weapons, no wi-fi, seriously i know that 
 team 17 knows that the ds is more capabil maybe team 17 has suddenly turned lazy or doesnt like 
 nintendo well team 17 get us a good worms game or else you will end up like rare just so mysteriouse 
 and the golden age will be done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: technewsgr
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 23, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Worms Open Warfare is the typical worms game as played on our pc. If someone doesn't know what 
 kind of game it is he should first check out and find something about it.
  
  It is a turn-based game. This means that you have to wait for the opponent to decide his move. 
 Many people are complaining that it takes so much time for the computer to make a move... guess 
 what! This is worms, this is how Worms are in the pc, this is how worms are in DS.
  
  Other people are complaining about the graphics (!) . Hahaha... what did you expect? Worms are just 
 fine... as it was on the pc game. There is no need to compare the game with the PSP game.
  
  The gameplay is wonderful and the dual screen helps a lot ,when choosing weapons or reading 
 the map.
  
  I really liked Worms Open Warfare. I suggest that every "Worms-iovers" should buy it. For people 
 that don't like those kind of games... don't even think about buying it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chatotic
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 27, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  To save you reading the rest of this review, don't buy Worms : Open Warfare.
  Why should you not buy it? I believe I shall sum up the reasons as to why this game... well... sucks.
 
  First off the controls are sluggish. Want a worm to jump? he will... eventually.
  The weapons, there are much, much less of them this time around.
  The modes, barely any. You 
 get your challenges, your tutorials, your single + multiplayer, then thats it.
  This game might be worth buying if you're new to worms, as the main letdown from the other games 
 is the lack of most of the features that made the more recent console editions worthwhile, and 
 FOR THE LOVE OF GOD do not buy this if you're a worms fan. It shall crush your faith.
  Buy something better. Trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puremage1209
Rating: 1.9
Date: Apr 22, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the worst ive ever seen. It is full of glitches and graphic issues. You can 
 easily get stuck in barrels, and a bunch of other stuff like that. Team 17 has really let me down 
 with this game, because i am a huge fan of the other worms games. The game has eliminated most 
 of the best weapons like the holy hand grenade and the mad cow and old woman. The weapons have 
 glitches in them too. I will guess that in about a year team 17 will come out with an upgrade for 
 this game. The game all in itself, although portable, is not worth even 50 cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artanis666
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I have played 3 different Worms games (including this one) . The first was Worms Armageddon for 
 the PC. The second was just a few onths ago; the original Worms game. I just got this game 3 days 
 ago, and I have already completed all of the challenges and beaten my friend who has had the game 
 since the day it came out. The graphics need to by tweaked for quality, but the frame rate is awsome. 
 The sounds were nice, but seemed a bit etchy. The stages and the weapons were fantastic, the only 
 parts of the game which didn't have any faults. I only wish that you could have up to 8 players 
 on a team like Worms Armageddon. Otherwise, this game is awsome. I would recommend this game to 
 anyone who has a DS (especially if they have friends with the game as well) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l_i_j
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game on the day of release here in the UK, excited about a new Worms game in 2D.
 
  
  Armageddon is in my opinion the best Worms game. I never expected this to be as good as Armageddon. 
 I knew from the screenshots and videos the graphics would not shine, and there were not all that 
 many weapons, but I didn't care about that. All I wanted was a portable Worms game I could play 
 both alone and with friends, and enjoy. I didn't get this.
  
  There were too many glitches, far too many problems with the game. Worms fell through the ground 
 on occasion to their death. Pixels of land, invisible to see (and sometimes nothing at all) stopped 
 me using the ninja rope effectively. When I changed the grave stone in the options, it did not 
 actually change it in the game. 
  
  All this, along with the fact that single player was far too short and boring left me dissapointed 
 to say the least. And there is no multiplayer multi cart game - and you cannot play multi player 
 on multiple DS consoles playing as your created teams!
  
  I changed my game thinking (and hoping) the problems would be a fault with my game card, but the 
 new one was just the same. 
  
  After owning Worms: Open Warfare for my DS for 2 weeks exactly, I had had enough, took it back, 
 and changed it for Animal Crossing, which after 4 days I am glad I did.
  
  So to summarise, even though I didn't expect the best Worms game, I didn't even get a good Worms 
 game that I could enjoy. The glitches sucked any fun from the gameplay, and made me get rid of 
 the game after only 2 weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax_prime_basic
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 9, 2006 11:33 pm PT
Review:  It was a trip to Best Buy to pick up Lacuna Coil's new album that landed Worms: Open Warfare for 
 the Nintendo DS in my hands. Or, more appropriately, my brother's hands, and then mine via the 
 wireless multiplayer. Not knowing what we were in for, I was skeptical in regards to his new DS 
 purchase. After all, if anyone can remember Worms for the game boy color.... then you know that 
 handheld Worms, even when it tries to just faithfully replicate the old series' gameplay, isn't 
 a safe bet. However, upon seeing Worms: Open Warfare up and running on my DS, my worries were quelled. 
 The game looks like Worms, plays like Worms, and is in fact... Worms. It doesn't do anything new, 
 but it's portable Worms done right, and my brother and I had plenty of ridiculous fun playing it 
 during my visit to his apartment.
  
  Graphically, the game is fine. It's not bad, but it's not too shiny or impressive either. The worms 
 themselves apparently could be sharper (I didn't notice, but my brother's gamer roomate did) , but 
 they are serviceable enough. The sound gets the job done too, and sounds more or less no different 
 than other Worms games.
  
  The game uses the stylus to cycle through your weapon selection, which actually works well. However, 
 you do have to use the d-pad to move your character around, so switching can be awkward at first, 
 but you'll eventually get the hang of it. Also, single player is not very enjoyable, since the 
 A. I. takes a long time to move and generally doesn't do very smart things. Other than that, it 
 plays like Worms always has, which can be a good or a bad thing depending on how you look at it.
 
  
  In short, this is basic Worms for the DS. Its presentation is decent, and for the most part it 
 plays like Worms always has in the past. You'll probably want to skip the single player, but I 
 have not enjoyed single player Worms EVER, and I'm probably not alone in saying that by far the 
 best part of the Worms experience is its multiplayer, which is still a hilariously good time here. 
 You have to start taking points off for each new Worms game that comes out that is exactly the 
 same, but when you think about it, there hasn't really been a successful portable Worms experience 
 until now. The wireless multiplayer is much more enjoyable than the hot seat method, and all in 
 all, this is a good Worms game that is recommendable to DS owners with some friends to play it 
 with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguy900
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  The classic 2D gameplay is great, but I wish they'd have put in the holy hand grenade or cows. 
 All this has is sheep! Also, there aren't a lot of multiplayer options (Level Theme, Speech Theme, 
 Weapon Scheme) . However, the multiplayer game is good enough that you won't really notice. Best 
 of all, since it's turn-based, 4 players on the same DS! The graphics are a little bit below the 
 older 2D Worms games, but still have that distinct style. The sound is great, as usual: The wacky 
 voices, the great weapon sound effects. Overall, this is a pretty good game, and it's worth checking 
 out. I you want another good game in the same genre, Advance Wars: Dual Strike is pretty good as 
 well. This has a more fun presentation, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWGgy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  My goal is to help you decide between buying this game or not with as little bias as humanly possible. 
 It is a unique game for the DS for right now but who knows if something better will be coming out 
 in the near future. 
  
  Good points: 
  A fun, up to four player wireless strategy game for the DS; Adequately customizable; Twenty difficulty 
 challenge levels per worm team; Ten customizable worm teams; Good music for each of the six world 
 settings, like Jungle, Hawaiian, and space; 4 modes of play: Random Quick game, Create a game with 
 the option to manually choose the landscape, Challenge mode, and music-less Multiplayer; And dont 
 forget the 15 hilarious voice types that you can select in the Speech Bank for each game, like 
 Irish, Drill sergeant, and Stiff upper lip.
  
  Bad points: 
  No Super Sheep! I cant believe it. This is my number one disappointment with the game. But you 
 do get regular sheep which are great to use to get at those infuriating worms that turn to the 
 dark side by tunneling into the landscape like bloody the Viet Cong! 
  
  No Wifi! Are they nuts?! Obviously they just wanted to get this out there to make some money as 
 fast as possible. They didnt seem to care that if they had put more effort into it then it might 
 sell better.
  
  The AI is easily bested due to the games slow speed. Some times the AI times out and doesnt finish 
 its turn.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 6, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  I was REALLY lookin foward to this game . I am really unhappy to see it fail the way it has done. 
 
  
  The gameplay is very repetetive and boring once youve played it more than 2wice . It could have 
 been SOOOO much more if the game was wifi. I dont know what the makers were thinking. I wouldent 
 have given it a 5 if it wasnt for multiplayer , the only reson worth buying worms is for the multiplayer. 
 The best part of the gameplay by far!
  
  The graphics are probally average and the backgrounds and quite funny and enjoyable, but nothing 
 to talk about really. No WOW factor in it like mario kart etc.
  
  The sound is the BEST! part of the game . It is VERY funny and enjoyable . When you hit the worms 
 they say 'leave me alone' in a small squeaky voice . VERY funny !
  
  This was a dissapointing game overall. If had wifi team 17 could have done it but unfortunally 
 it hasent. I do NOT reccoment this game to anyone really unless you want some multiplayer fun . 
 NOT worth buying for 1 player at ALL !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TonyP10
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 29, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  While much of the feel of past Worms games has been kept, it has been severely toned down. Many 
 of the great aspects of the game have been overly simplified. The graphics are barely passable, 
 The graphics are passable but not impressive, and the AI takes forever to make a single move.
 
  
  It's simply not worth the time to wait for the AI to decide to move. Not to mention, it's as cheap 
 as ever. Enemies will pull off shots that'll nail you from across the map like it's nothing. Nothing 
 has been improved over past versions of the game, and much has been removed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creapy_team
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  Well, I am a worms fan, so this does the job for me.
  
  Your job is to kill the other teams worms with your worm-team. You can edit your team name, and 
 your worms name, and what gravestone that will pop out of your worms when their time on earth is 
 out. To kill other worms, you use guns. Not just any gun, but Shotguns, UZI's, Bazzokas, Grenades. 
 And to not forget the unforgetable, teh Banana Bomb and Sheep. All those weapons are here. Practlcly, 
 all the weapons from the first game is here. Just them. A shame, I would love to see at least the 
 Holy Hand Grenade (Monty Pyhton SP01LER5!!!!!1) .
  
  Graphics is all right, the worms and explosions looks like they should. But the landscape are really 
 nice, now when we see it through a "3 inch screen. Sounds are nearly perfect, sounds as they do 
 at PC. And the Music is as kickass as normal for the Worms series (but they can't touch Worms 3D's!) .
 
  
  But the letdown in this game is that i could be so much more. You can battle with up to 3 of your 
 friends with one card, if they do own a Nintendo DS. But I don't see why they couldn't add some 
 kind of Wi-Fi, because that has always been a major selling point for Worms.
  
  Also the menu is very annoying because the game doesn't regonize your touching on menu sometimes 
 . And you can't use the D-Pad. Ingame, it's okey.
  
  You can just have 3 custom schemes! May be enough for some (and me) but someone is going to complein 
 about it. And teams. Teams! You can not add teams, you must edit those you got from the beginning, 
 which sucks.
  
  It is a nice way to spoil your time, but it ain't best game ever, you know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benstirk
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  I love the whole Worms genre ... Remember first playing it on my PS1 and being totally addicted, 
 then came Worms Armageddon on the PC, wow what a game !!
  
  Then ...
  
  Came ...
  
  Worms for the GBA - Pants !!!!
  
  And then ...
  
  THIS
  
  PANTS !!!!
  
  I hate 
 these ported games so much, why couldnt they have remade especially for the small screen? - Having 
 to use the buttons and the wand is just so annoying.
  
  The game in itself looks and plays okay, but it didnt enthral me at all.
  
  Total time played 
 = 2 hours, then never again.
  
  Be warned this ain't as good as most people say it is
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: malejeune
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Ten years ago it was great on PC. Now it is wonderfull on the DS. Always very funny.
  All the optimisation due to the Nintendo DS are turned to the player pleasure.
  
  Team17 : 
 bravo !!
  THD thanks a lot
  
  Once more an inventive game on an inventive console is what we need.
  
  Anyway : beware of 
 the sheep : still crazy, still funny.
  
  The graphics and sounds effect are amazing. The voices are unbelievable !! Yes !! They talk... 
 Those worms talks guys !! .
  
  You missed them, they are back in a very addictive 2D game. You tried the 3D opus?? this one is 
 much better for the gameplay : once the game launched, already ready to fight those worms.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Worms is everybody's favourite stratergy game. Why is it so cool? Because you control animals that 
 shoot guns in loads of crafted levels... wicked. So after three... er... 3D Worms games, the crazy 
 guys behind Worms (team 17) has finnaly done a 2D remix. It does not carry anything too new, but 
 it's intresting for the DS's screen and it's classic. Add a few mates into it and you have got 
 real mayhem.
  
  Worms is simple. The thing you need to do is kill worms. Lots of them. Tired? No, as you can customize 
 they're names and make levels, with crazy weapons. Team 17 has did something intresting - instead 
 of letting everything cram in the DS's oh-so-small screen, they have used it for the touch screen. 
 Handy. The sounds don't get much better than this - humourous and impressing. The graphics are 
 brilliant and the boxart rules.
  
  Having all this anywhere you want is a treat. Not what the DS was made for, though, but still balls 
 of fun and no mistake on that. A special treat, and this game is just plain wierd.
  
  It's better than: Worms 3D
  It's worse than: Worms World Party
  
  Gameplay:
  + 2D mayhem. 
 It's like balls tumbling down a hill crazily.
  - Nothing new is in the gameplay, and it gets repetieve soon if there are no mates.
  
  Graphics:
 
  + Superb uses of 2D and a slight mix of 3D.
  - The other DS games can do better, so why did Team 17 do something weaker?
  
  Sound:
  + 
 Halarious is the only correct word I have on the list.
  - No voice acting, like all Worms games.
  
  Worms is a great game that is better when a few 
 mates are sticked to it. Both ways, there is loadsa mayhem.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
