-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/smackdownvsraw2008/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Season mode simulates the matches and soap opera stories from the WWE.
 Context dependent touch-screen controls capture the feel of a real match.
 Detailed 3D graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Roster could use a few more characters.
 Touch-screen controls take time to adjust to.
 No custom match, wrestler edit, or online features.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 152 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Amaze
Genre: Wrestling
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This portable wrasslin' game is basically fun, even if there aren't a whole lot of play modes.

  You don't get many bells and whistles with WWE SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008 for the Nintendo DS. However, 
 what you do get is a solid portable wrestling game that manages to accurately depict the look and 
 feel of the matches and storylines you see on television every week.  

  The character roster includes 21 WWE superstars divided roughly in half between the SmackDown! 
 and RAW brands. That's barely a quarter of the federation's current cast, but most of the big names 
 are present. John Cena, Undertaker, Rey Mysterio, Edge, Shawn Michaels, and Kane are just some 
 of the marquee names you can play as. There are even a couple of refugees from the ECW brand.  
 

           Actions are performed by tapping and drawing on the touch screen.      

  From the main menu, your two options are exhibition play and the season mode. Exhibition play lets 
 you set up matches against the CPU or one of your buddies, provided they also have a copy of the 
 game. The different match types you can pick from are standard, hardcore, last man standing, submission, 
 iron man, and three stages of hell. You can also choose from any of 18 different arenas, including 
 the basic SmackDown! and RAW house sets, as well as all of the popular Pay-Per-View venues. Sadly, 
 there are no custom match or create-a-wrestler features.  

  Season mode is where the action is. In it, you pick a wrestler and basically work your way through 
 the ranks until you win all of the major championships. Before each match, you can visit the locker 
 rooms and other areas in the arena, where you can talk to the other wrestlers, manage your items, 
 and search containers looking for training room tokens. Talking to other wrestlers causes different 
 events and side matches to happen. Feuds, face turns, alliances, and shocking behind-the-scenes 
 attacks are all par for the course, just like they are on actual WWE broadcasts. In your personal 
 locker room, you can select the foreign objects and allies that you'll use during matches. Meanwhile, 
 those training room tokens let you buy workout time on three different training minigames. The 
 bench press builds your strength, the jump rope builds your agility, and the heavy bag increases 
 the power of your strikes.  

  Each wrestler has his own story that plays out during the course of the season. There's no recorded 
 voice work for that dialogue, however. It's all just displayed in text boxes that appear next to 
 each wrestler's face. Thankfully, the presentation improves considerably once you enter the arena. 
 Wrestler entrances involve big-screen displays, light shows, familiar music, and an announcer that 
 dramatically speaks out each wrestler's weight, origin, and name. The 3D graphics are very detailed. 
 You'll observe spectators and big screens doing their thing outside the ring. Inside the ring, 
 the wrestlers' bodies and costumes are mostly accurate, and their animations are remarkably lifelike. 
 All of the different smack, thump, and slam sounds are satisfying, too.  

  The unique thing about SmackDown! vs. RAW 2008 on the DS is that it relies solely on the touch 
 screen for input. To select menu items, visit location hot spots, and talk to people, you only 
 have to tap. Each of the minigames in the training room challenges you to tap, slide, and draw 
 circles in response to the onscreen prompts. In the ring, moves are first selected by tapping the 
 different context-sensitive icons that appear. Then, you have to tap, trace lines, or draw circles 
 as indicated in order to actually perform the move. Basic level-one strikes only require a quick 
 jot. Stronger takedowns and submissions require multiple scribbles, spins, and taps.  

           Backstage, you'll build strength and skill on the training equipment, and get mixed up 
 in different story lines.      

  You can't actually move around the ring in the traditional sense. Instead, to nudge an opponent 
 toward a turnbuckle or hurl them into the ropes, you have to use your wrestling moves to maneuver 
 you and your opponent into position. The action icons that appear on the touch screen vary depending 
 on where you're located in the ring, whether you're tied up in a grapple, and who has the upper 
 hand. If you play as Rey Mysterio, for example, your options in the middle of the ring are limited 
 to a punch, the Dragon Whip spin kick, and a lock up. In a lock up, those icons will change to 
 a groin kick, reversal, and an Irish Whip. When you're near the ropes or turnbuckles, they'll let 
 you set up a high-flying takedown or a leap off the top rope. In the unfortunate instance that 
 you end up tied up or flat on the mat, the icons and touch commands will change into defensive 
 actions that will let you roll out or spring a surprise trap on your opponent.  

  It takes time to adjust to the controls. Tapping and scribbling to play a wrestling game feels 
 weird at first, the amount of time you're given to perform each command is short, and there are 
 dozens of moves and situations to learn. But once you learn your wrestler's individual moves and 
 figure out what action icons appear in various situations, you'll come to appreciate how the use 
 of context-sensitive commands simulates the pacing and style of a real WWE match -- even if it means 
 less overall freedom of movement.  

  Assuming you can get used to the controls, you'll probably like the DS rendition of SmackDown! 
 vs. RAW 2008 if you're in the market for some portable wrestling entertainment. It may not offer 
 the sizeable cast and customization options that console-based wrestling games have, but the action 
 is exciting and the atmosphere is frighteningly true to the soap opera-style pageantry that the 
 WWE actually broadcasts.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: liamologhlen
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 1, 2009 4:16 am PT
Review:  This game is a disgrace to the ds. you can't make caws, no difficulty choice and absoloutely no 
 freedom.
  
  When I got this, i was hoping for a great game, but it is just pure cr*p. They couldnt even get 
 any character updates. Mr kennedy cant even do his own damn ring anouncing. it's just his lips 
 moving.
  
  Thq cleaned up most of the mess with 2009, but this was just terrible.
  
  One thing to add to 2010 is all the stuff the other consoles have only maybe a little worse graphics.
 
  
  This game was almost as boring as watching grass grow.
  
  ECW had two wrestlers on it. that was a huge insult to the tribe of  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarcusRalphson
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  Smackdown vs raw 2008 for ds is a great game and a good installment for wrestling fans alike
  
  firstly the game does have a small roster with only 21 superstars but it does have people like 
 The Undertaker, Rey Mysterio and Triple H.
  There are 6 matches Single, Hardcore, Last man standing,3 Stages of Hell, Submission and iron man 
 which is more than the WII.
  
  In hardcore matches you get to pick from a selection of wepons, a lot more more compared to the 
 WIIs 1.
  
  Graphics arnt the best but they are great for the ds if not great some wrestlers look like there 
 real life counterparts.
  
  The Season mode has you picking a superstar and trying to get the belt of your roster every diva 
 turns you down and most wrestlers are mean to you.
  If you help other wrestlers they give you amusing cream cream, and i think Snitsky has problems 
 he gave me an item called snitskys woman shoe, maybe he isnt twlling us something!!!! lol
  
  overall this is a great game but is missing a few things on next years game they need a biggest 
 selection of superstars and maybe more matchtypes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solar-Nix
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Smackdown vs. Raw 2008
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  Smackdown vs. Raw 2008 (SVR08) has the components of a great game. The graphics are fresh and fully 
 rendered. The gameplay is genuinely addictive. The story mode is immersing, to a certain extent. 
 
  
  However, there a several things that weigh it down. The sound isnt very good at all. "OOF", "HUHH", 
 and "BAH!" are the only thing the wrestlers say. The crowd yells the superstars name (meaning each 
 chant is different) , but that isnt enough to lighten the stiff mode. I also found it incredibly 
 annoying (and unprofessional) that the exact same song plays through out the entire game unless 
 you're in Exhibition or Seanson mode. 
  And that brings us the to Mode selection. The only matches you can play are: Regular, Hardcore, 
 Three Stages of Hell, Ironman, Submission, and Last Man Standing. 6 match types prove for some 
 distinguished fun, but after awile it gets to be the same ol' thing.
  
  The gameplay also gets stale. If you play with the same character (such as in season mode, which 
 is apx. 50 matches long) you will find yourself pulling off the same combos with little or no thought. 
 To make matters substantially worse, many superstars have almost the same movepool. 
  
  The story is okay, but incredibly shallow. The only conversation that takes place are threats or 
 title-match proposals. I would have enjoyed some more depth here. Not much more to say.
  
  Not everything is bad; the unlockables are the best part of the game. You can help other superstars 
 with tasks and they will return the favor with an item of their's. They almost always tie into 
 the superstar's live or interest in real life. Also, there are many items to collect, which include: 
 a sludgehammer, chair, fire extinguisher, and many more weapons to use in matches.
  
  Many things were sacrificed for reasons I dont know. There is no "Create a Superstar" mode, there 
 are only about 16-20 characters to chose from, and more match types would have been awesome. 
 
  
  In conclusion, SVR08 is great, but a little half baked. There are many flaws, and I think the game 
 would have had great potential if properly thought through. Everything seems "grade-A" stuff untill 
 you look closer. That scores this title a so-so "6 out of 10". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  I've said this, may it be to myself, on this website, or to a friend, but it truly takes a wrestling 
 fan to appreciate the real pro's and con's about these types of games, and this one is full of 
 them. Now, although they lack in more areas than WWF Smackdown, despite having some odd qualities 
 at first (collecting time is... well... weird) , this game is still awesome. Let me explain why.
 
  The ds control in this game is a masterpeice by itself. You can select a 1 for a light attack 
 that is easy to pull off, like rubbing over an arrow, a 2 for a slightly harder move like drawing 
 a circle, or a 3 for a power move that may require say two arrow rubs and a circle or something 
 to that effect. Too force your target to submit, you must draw circle quickly, and to pin them, 
 you have to tap a red dot super fast. Now, some complain about not having a free roam about the 
 ring, but actually being TACTICAL, you get them wherever you want. Wanna do a rope move? Punch 
 them to get them near the ropes, them fling them away! It works of so many levels.
  The season mode is, well... kind of an enigma. That doesn't make it fun, like the other modes, 
 it is just kind of weird. Basically, the one reason its BAD is because it just butchers the standards 
 of real life wrestlers. I know that the gamespot reviewer didn't catch that, but let me just tell 
 you: The Undertaker isn't a jobber, and he doesn't want to challenge hardcore holly. You don't 
 want to fight Kane for FLOWERS he is going to do in a interview... sigh. The true PRO is that you 
 can collect the aforementioned "time" to work out, raising your stats in a way likewise to the 
 old Here Comes the Pain game, one of the true fan favorites.
  Overall this is a fun game that is definitely worth get/trying. Though it doesn't have as much 
 of the same stuff from the other wrestling games, it is still worth it and fun in new and refreshing 
 ways. I think the choice to put this game on the wii, ds as well as the ps2 is the best choice 
 they've ever made. :)
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OptimusSurpreme
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Grab your cotton swabs as you pick up WWE SmackDown Vs. Raw 2008. The entire touch screen requires 
 you to spin, click, and rub the life out of your touchscreen to get a half decent move performed. 
 With less then a thimble full of characters, no voice acting, and no create a character feature, 
 it may seem that all is lost.
  
  It's not so! Although the controls feel a little clunky, the game is fun maneuvering your opponent 
 into positions that help you.
  
  From the start of the game, you have the tutorial to master how to play the entire arena part of 
 the game. The characters have no difficulty setting, and a week 1 match will be just as hard as 
 a championship match.
  
  The out-of-ring antics are fun, and are mainly there to take up your time between matches. You 
 get brushed off by every diva around, while you workout. (Imagine the rocky snow training)
  
  Ultimately, the game makes use of your touchscreen, and is pretty decent for the first wrestling 
 game for the DS. I recommend a rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Micooliscool
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2007 2:50 am PT
Review:  Smackdown vs Raw 2008 is the first wrestling game for the Nintendo DS. The graphics are good for 
 the DS but it lacks gameplay depth.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are relativly good considering it's a DS game. You can see the first three 
 rows or so of the crowd and the rest is just a faint crowd. The arena looks good but the entrance 
 video is just pictures of the entrance video.
  
  Gameplay- The gamplay is what brings down Smackdown vs RAW 2008. The three levels of attack are 
 avrage but get repetative after a while. The first level is the quickest to do but the weakest, 
 this includes punching and kicking. The second level is slower than the first, faster than the 
 third to do. This includes grapples medium pins and stronger punches/kicks. The third level is 
 the slowest but strongest move. It includes the strongest grapples, pins submissions and on the 
 odd ocassion punches and kicks.
  The entrances are terrible, they skip major parts of the entrance.
  e. g. When HHH enters the 
 song is up to the first TIME TO PLAY THE GAME when it finishes and Mr. Kennedy's speech is skipped.
 
  The season mode is average but also gets repetative. The best part is multiplayer but you need 
 two games to play. Could do with more wrestlers.
  You have to tapped incredable fast to get out of a pin. If I got pined by another wrestler, it would 
 be game over, it's almost impossible to escape because you tap a red button enough to get out. 
 You would have to be faster than sonic to escape.
  
  Sound- The sound is good, the entrance music is perfect but the cheer of the crowd blocks out the 
 music on a couple of wrestlers.
  
  This game should only be bought by big fans of the wwe, if you aren't don't get it. It has it's 
 moments but this game could have been heaps better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLuFAlc0n
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  svr 08 for the ds is a very positive new step to gold for the ds, a wrestling game that never had 
 the experience of using the touch-screen innovatively, it it really fun to play, well it really 
 depends on your reflexes, if your slow, you'll think the game is not very good because of the controls, 
 the rest, it's a different story because this game is seriously good. I have to admit the game 
 doesent have a 7th gen frame, the presentation feels like playing a GBA game compared to the other 
 versions and I know it could have make it better, a ds can do A-LOT better, plus if they could 
 have add at least 2 legends, it will do, it dosen't have songs like at the other versions, instead 
 you got this weird music like playing on the arcade type tune, if at least can make a create- a 
 -character, only one two or three people, it will do, all you have on the menu is exibition, season 
 and options. well that covers the bad points. Now the good points, the graphics are very good for 
 a ds, it will be considered great! it has better graphics than wwf no mercy on the 64, you will 
 have an entrance that has announcers on and their actual entrance music with good quality, plus 
 you don't get the boring commentators, you can commentate your own match on the ds version, gameplay 
 is legendary (and the graphics) depending again on you, you slide up combinations and beat them, 
 you improve through the game on season mode, it's actually quite good to play with, but to do your 
 specials, a certain body part must be on red, for example, Rey Mysterio, tap 1, then 2, then tap 
 the skull icon, drag the arrow, then 619!!!!!! (the head must be on red) . Sounds, you can't really 
 count on it, but you get grunts, moves and the crowd!! You get 6 matches on the DS version, single, 
 hardcore, submission, iron man, last man standing and three stages of hell! you also get hardcore 
 holly and hulk hogan in the game (hulk hogan only at action replay, my action replay) exclusively 
 on DS,
  plus you can get a friend and play for 2 players, you get multiplayer at least, but ill say the 
 graphics is the best part in here!!! Overall the game is seriously innovative and new and fresh, 
 it's worth buying it!! very detailed characters!!!
  
  Good/ +
  Legendary Graphics
  Awesome Gameplay
  Good Quality Sound
  Very Innovative
  You don't get the boring commentators, 
 they sound better in real life
  Detailed entrance
  You can commentate your match through the mic.
  Season Mode is good to play
  Has more matches 
 than the Wii version
  Has more weapons than the Wii version
  It's rumble pak supported
  Has a good case
  You get the smackdown announcer that is now on ECW
  pretty cheap for a game, 
 it only cost 10 until dec 5 on gamestation
  A game that you have never ever experience in a wrestling game
  Good use of the touch screen
 
  Every arena are detailed and does look like them
  
  
  
  Bad/ -
  Can at least add a few characters
  No create - a - player
  king booker's entrance uses the 
 'booker t' music
  Rey Mysterio does not have fireworks on his entrance
  The wrestlers titantron is like at no mercy for the N64
  Could have at least add Puddle of Mudd 
 - Famous through the main menu song
  Has a different surface
  Wm 23 is called WM 24 for some reasons...
  Might all have the PPV but all of them are 05 - 06 
 pay per views exept wrestlemania 
  Entrances are too fast
  
  Gameplay/Innovation - 8/10
  Graphics - 9/10
  Sounds - 7/10
  Value - 7/10
  Presentation 
 - 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pillarrocks
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of wrestling one can come to expect alot from wrestling games made by THQ and Yukes. 
 I got this game just because I was curious at how it would play being that its the first time that 
 the Smackdown! series makes it way to Nintendo DS. The game trys to set itself apart from the console 
 versions by taking advantage of the touch screen controls. Instead of using the buttons on the 
 ds to move your wrestler and attack, you use the touch screen to draw on it. This brings a new 
 approach to the Smackdown! series being that you must think before you make a move. There are three 
 attacks that you are given on the touch screen to select from. Each attack is different and depending 
 on which attack you choose will deal damage on your opponent. The roster is pretty weak and offers 
 the top stars in the WWE but adding more like legends and divas would of been better. There are 
 only two modes of play season mode and exhibition mode. In season mode you select a wrestler and 
 take him through beating the entire roster. You get all of the arenas unlocked from the start so 
 you don't have to beat the game. The game should of added more modes like the console versions 
 and dropped the touch controls. The game gets boring after awhile and frustrating since its rock, 
 paper, sisscors gameplay insead of a straightup wrestling game. Don't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Weekend
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this game on trailer, the whole idea was already a turn off. When I got to really 
 go hands on and try it, it just confirms my fears was right the moment i saw it.
  
  This is downright one of the most blantant "I WANT YOU TO EXPERIENCE THE TOUCH SCREEN USAGE" garbage 
 i've ever seen. Other games have pulled the touch screen experience well, but this one just doesn't 
 make the game enjoyable. Really, i tried a few matches and really, the controls don't seem to understand 
 what you're trying to do, despite you following the on-screen commands tightly.
  
  The graphics are pretty bad, I would have rathered they not use 3D but something else to nicely 
 render the wrestlers. I am quite surprised that they had voiceovers for the entrance and proper 
 music, but other than that, it's as downhill as it can get.
  
  I simply caution gamers to avoid this game and spend your money elsewhere. Thankfully, this copy 
 wasn't mine, and my money spent on Dragon Quest IV DS (jap) was alot more worth it. I'm still big 
 on supporting WWE's games on other systems ... but just not the NDS until they change it into something 
 easier to have portable fun with ... I'm hoping for a full fledge Wrestling simulator of sorts 
 ... at least that would make sense! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darrylthebest
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  DS has the very best games like pokemon but wrestling games like the svr 08 , The first wrestling 
 game for the DS System is a dissapointing Because of the small screen the picture re'nt clear Playstations 
 Have a better quality graphics and the same for Xbox 360 well the controls are good for the DS 
 Grapples With the DS stick . But The fans will like it a bit. wrestlers do not look clear. Sorry 
 but the game is a dissapointment hope 09 will be better. the improvement to be done is a better 
 quality picture (if can) commentary More wrstlers or superstars !!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hbk0
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  Poor graphic is not necessarily a reason why a game can be crappy, there are many games with bad 
 graphic but still offers fun game play. However this game not only brought us crappy graphic but 
 also lame, boring game play. I even doubt if it's still under development because the lack of audio 
 and sound in the game except for some cheap sound effect. The "innovative" control system definitely 
 is not fun to play since what you have to do in the game is just repeating everything you have 
 ever done in the first match.
  
  Wrestling is about intensity, power, speed and showdown, but this game gives us the sloppy, weak 
 version of wrestling, which is rather lame.
  
  Nothing else I want to say about this game, simply awful, don't play it, it's waste of time, I'm 
 the living proof and I'll never do it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n-sonic
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 19, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  This is the worst game for the DS. Unfortunately the mania that by using the stylus has led to 
 a game of wrestling becomes an interactive game with zero gameplay where only wait to see what 
 happens. The chart is very good and that is lost with the style of play you have. The music is 
 also acceptable, but compared to other games reminds me of the music corner of the game WWE No 
 Mercy for the Nintendo 64. I hope that the version of 2009 is only with the joystick because my 
 time but I will not loose in a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Being a WWE fan, one must consider the first DS game dedicated to this genre, and hope it to be 
 at least good. Therefore, I picked up my copy, and was very disappointed with what I was playing, 
 as THQ used another style of gameplay for the DS than any other wrestling game ever produced - 
 the rock, paper, scissors technique.
  
  Graphics: I must state that this is the ONLY part of the game that gets a somewhat decent score 
 because the rest is really bad. As full 3D is present, and it looks quite good, there is a more 
 in-depth approximation of the real wrestling show (this is a sim, after all) , not to mention the 
 detail is pretty sharp. 7/10 here.
  
  Sound: Let's see - we have a pretty bad adaptation of the superstars' themes, the ring announcer's 
 voice which is really all the voice SFX you will hear, and the moves sounds, mixed with some related 
 sound effects. Nothing too classy. 3/10
  
  Gameplay: What can I say? I mean, THQ did employ a new wrestling technique, but despite being innovative, 
 it's really boring. You have a choice of three attacks (weak, stronger, strongest) , in which you 
 tap and make circles and other figures on the touch screen with the stylus that isn't very appealing 
 after some moves, as they are extremely repetitive and this method takes very long before you can 
 execute your finisher. It's the rock-paper-scissors style used to the max, which basically is new 
 and cool at first, to tedious at the end. I really hope they ditch this style in 2009 (if they 
 create it) , because it totally ruins the experience of wrestling. It's meant to be fast and exciting, 
 not stopping every move and waiting for an order to attack. 2/10
  
  Replay Value: Well, what did you expect? You have career mode, which is basically picking a superstar 
 and massacring others in order to win championships and participate in main events over and over 
 again. Not too fancy. Then multiplayer, which is the one vs. one styled match. Again, no WiFi, 
 which would be good, but why waste it on a game so bad? 3/10
  
  Resuming, WWE Smackdown vs Raw for the DS is only visually attractive, mixing elements such as 
 the bad innovative touch gameplay, mediocre sound, and poor replay value. It's not made to be played 
 by anyone, unless they like this style of gameplay - which, I repeat, is a disaster. Take out this 
 excuse of a wrestling game and give us a better one next year, with some proper action, because 
 this belongs in only one place - the trashcan. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jabajarrett
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Is Raw vs smackdown for DS perfect. Not by any means. It is however a vast improvement on handheld 
 wrestling games from the past. The control scheme takes some getting used to and not being able 
 to mover your character is a downer at times. On the good side there are actual entrances for the 
 superstars as well as their music, the graphics are excellent for a handheld system, and the controls 
 for what they are seem to work nicely. To me the styulus based controls seem to mirror the flow 
 of a wrestling match but are more akin to strategy than action. There is breaks in the action as 
 you tap your move choice and perform various moves with the stylus but the actions flow nicely 
 with the on screen action and the amount of moves available seem to be more than in other traditional 
 control schemes. The season mode is pretty cool but is very long and using the same wrestler week 
 in and week out can get stale. All in all I was suprised that this game wasnt a complete piece 
 of crap and played in small bursts is very enjoyable. Now all Nintendo has to do is bring NO Mercy 
 to the DS and all will be well!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aanjan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  Never expected something like this for ds ... the controls are easy once u get the hang of it ... 
 only the touch screen is used for the entire game
  
  graphics - good , but in a ds , it's great ...
  
  sound - average , but the entrance musics 
 aren't like tones or something , we get real themes ...
  
  gameplay - good , but gets kind of repetitive .... dont start the exhibition mode directly .... 
 u wouldn't be able to figure out much ... most probably your touch screen will be in a bad shape 
 after all those scratching ...
  
  caw 's are missing and the types of matches available are single , hardcore , last man standing 
 , submission , 3 stages of hell and ironman .. 
  
  about 18 wrestlers are available , a few divas make their appearance in season mode but cant be 
 selected
  
  few standard moves are available and few other moves to certain wrestlers... finishers can be done 
 only when certain body parts are injured , for example , the head part indicator should be red 
 in color for the opponent in order to use sweet chin music for hbk ..
  
  similarly , pinning can also be done only when the parts are injured ...
  
  but after a few 
 matches , the game becomes way too easy ....
  
  season mode is basically fighting all other guys and moving to different areas and finishing quests (!) 
 and increasing stats in the gym area ...
  
  basically , u select a move and follow the on screen instructions like spinning or scratching to 
 and fro like a maniac , etc ...
  
  i'd give it a 8.5 for it's innovative approach to wrestling in a whole new platform
  
  a nice 
 game to play if you are a wrestling fan .. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
