-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: X-Men: The Official Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/xmenmovie3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Stylus input feels intuitive.
 Story fills in the blanks between the last two films.
 The game is over quickly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Abilities don't jibe with what we know about the X-Men.
 Mix of button and stylus controls is often painful to juggle.
 Too easy to swap to inappropriate character during combat.
 Graphics and audio are generic.
 Character graphics are tiny and ugly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 31, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.3
Critic Score: 5.1, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 110 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Amaze
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: May 16, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The DS version of X-Men misuses its characters, controls poorly, and is otherwise utterly generic. 
 

  Like so many other movie tie-ins, X-Men: The Official Game for the Nintendo DS is a formulaic action 
 game that is, mercifully, short-lived. Fans will barely recognize their favorite characters -- partly 
 because they're tiny and nigh unrecognizable, but mainly because Wolverine, Iceman, Nightcrawler, 
 and Magneto have had their superpowers scaled back significantly in order to jibe with the character-swap 
 mechanic that is central to the game's design. Ironically, the character-swapping gimmick and the 
 stylus-oriented controls, which were no doubt meant to make the game more interesting, don't make 
 the game any more enjoyable or playable than it would be if it were oriented around a single character 
 and a standard button-oriented control scheme. In fact, very often, these nuances make the game 
 more frustrating.  

          The DS version of X-Men makes rather poor use of its characters.     

  The game picks 
 up right after the second movie left off, with Wolverine in pursuit of Lady Deathstrike and seeking 
 information behind his origins and those of the Weapon-X program. While that's going on, the government 
 kicks its anti-mutant campaign into high gear. Eventually, the two plot points come together, and 
 the three X-Men are reunited, along with Magneto, who, just for the heck of it, has decided to 
 help the heroes out. You alternate control of the characters while going through 40 short top-down 
 levels filled with cookie-cutter thugs and the occasional boss. Levels can be replayed at any time 
 to attempt to earn health and mutant power upgrades, and once you've completed the story mode, 
 you'll be able to access additional survival and boss rush modes.  

  Generally speaking, the game is a "by the numbers" beat-'em-up, where you battle waves of enemy 
 soldiers and dodge their gunfire while collecting health items and unlocking doors here and there. 
 The interesting wrinkle is that every action is performed by tapping or dragging the stylus on 
 the touch screen. This has good and bad implications. On the one hand, it feels very intuitive 
 to tap on enemies to direct attacks and to send objects sailing across the screen using Magneto's 
 magnetic powers. On the other hand, the touch screen isn't always quick to respond.  

  Central to the game's design is the ability, or rather, the requirement, to swap between characters 
 on the fly. Nightcrawler has his own levels designed specifically around his ability to manipulate 
 time and space, but most levels require the use of all three of the other mutants. Each character 
 has had his superhero repertoire reduced to one or two actions, meaning that there are some enemies 
 and obstacles that one character can handle and the others can't. Wolverine can slash enemies on 
 the ground, but he can't touch flying drones. Iceman can hurl frozen projectiles, but he can't 
 damage anything with heat-oriented shielding around it. Magneto can't attack human opponents directly, 
 but he can use his magnetic powers to hurl objects in the environment at them. He can also shatter 
 heavy metal doors that the other heroes can't get past. Routinely, you'll find yourself in situations 
 where you have to switch between the characters multiple times to deal with a single room filled 
 with a variety of enemies and obstacles.  

  These arbitrary restrictions, while appropriate for a video game, are idiotic considering what 
 we've seen the characters do in the comic books and movies. They also make the game more frustrating 
 than it ought to be. First, managing the shoulder buttons and touch screen to swap characters and 
 select enemies requires ridiculous levels of dexterity and stamina. Second, the tiny character 
 graphics make it tough to quickly differentiate one character from another, which means, just to 
 bring up one example, that you'll sometimes find yourself trying to attack human enemies unsuccessfully 
 with Magneto when you meant to use Wolverine and his adamantium claws.  

          Character models are tiny and often indiscernable from other random characters on screen. 
     

  On the whole, the graphics and audio are weak and uninspired. Level layouts, in addition to being 
 generic, resemble the sort of thing you'd see in a Game Boy Advance game. There's not much in the 
 way of decoration or color in the environment. Character animation is fine, but the characters 
 are tiny and distorted. The majority of bosses are the same size as the heroes, and the larger 
 ones are never completely shown and don't display much in the way of moving parts or coloration. 
 On the upside, the animated comic-panel cutaways that appear between some levels are pretty snazzy. 
 Meanwhile, the audio consists of some generic action-style music and a bunch of cookie-cutter explosions. 
 They're not particularly bad, but they're a far cry from some of the highly orchestral and voice-accentuated 
 stuff we've been getting from numerous recent DS games. There's nothing about the graphics or audio 
 here that couldn't have been done on the Game Boy Advance.  

  In the end, the best thing that can be said about the Nintendo DS rendition of X-Men: The Official 
 Game is that, indeed, there are X-Men in it. Apart from that, this is just another generic action 
 game, hampered by poor design choices and dodgy controls, and it doesn't do much to capture the 
 abilities or the personalities of the characters it portrays.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DreFullCircle
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 7, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  X-Men: The Official Game isn't the worst DS game ever made. It's probably not in the bottom ten. 
 It just settled at being mediocre in almost every respect. Much like unflavored oatmeal or pasta 
 without sauce, it doesn't leave a bad aftertaste, it doesn't leave one at all. The game takes place 
 between the second and third movies, yet it's named after the first. Maybe it's because it feels 
 like a mediocre PS1 game that would've been released along side it.
  The only reason I know what the game's about is because I read the back of the box. The story is 
 presented in text boxes like some sort of SNES game. Note to developers: NOBODY READS THOSE ANYMORE!!!! 
 After a few text boxes, you assume control of one of four heroes: Wolverine, Iceman, Nightcrawler, 
 and Magneto (Wait, he's a hero now?) . You then procede to use your unique abilites to defeat numerous 
 enemies, much like your standard brawler. There are a few different types, which does mix it up 
 slightly.
  The gameplay is where the game shines the most. Using each mutant's power is a different experience. 
 You can switch heroes on the fly, which you will need to do. The touch screen controls, while not 
 perfect, get the job done.
  The graphics of this game are underwhelming. It's presented in a top down perspective with pixelated 
 charachters and drab backgrounds. this game isn't supposed to be colorful, but it wan't supposed 
 to be emo-pastel either. The interfaces are X-Men slick. The orchestrated score is decent, but 
 the sound effects are GBA all the way.
  All in all, this game isn't really recommended. if you can find it for ten bucks like I did, wait 
 until it gets down to $5.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neeker
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Let me just go straight to the point and say that, if you're actually harboring any thoughts of 
 buying this game, DON'T. No, not even when they included Magneto (he's an exclusive playable character 
 for the DS version of this franchise) into the thick of the action for this DS version of the X-Men's 
 latest movie adventure. Quite simply, X-Men: The Official Game for the DS is just another eagerly 
 hashed up game going its rounds in milking a major summer blockbuster. Confusing gameplay, horrible 
 graphics and forgettable audios are just some of its key features. 
  
  I'm not sure whether it's the DS' fault. You know, this machine has a touch screen, and somehow, 
 some developers just feel compelled to make use of this innovation, just so that the "DS version" 
 of their game won't feel so run-of-the-mill. As such, instead of the usual button controls for 
 what is essentially a hack and slash game, X-Men: The Official Game uses the stylus extensively 
 for controls. You'd still use the D-pad (or the ABXY buttons, presumably to provide a solution 
 for lefties) to move your characters around, but for every other action, you'd have to use your 
 stylus. The idea is good, if it's used on a complementary basis. It's not, when you end up bashing 
 up bad guys with your stylus, when the good old button-smashing way of doing things is more effective. 
 True, dragging objects across the room with Magneto is an interesting way of doing things. But 
 on the other hand, tapping an enemy to engage in a fight is just plain silly. 
  
  It doesn't help when this team of superheroes are so limited in their abilities. Yes, these characters 
 have vastly distinctive mutant powers, and the game make use of them for specific situations. So, 
 if you need to brawl through an area quickly, you'd use Wolverine's brute. If you need to take 
 on a ranged enemy, you'd use Iceman. You get the picture. However, one can't help but feel that 
 the game is focusing a lot on what these characters can't do, instead of what they can. For example, 
 despite his strengths, Wolverine can't hit a flying enemy. Magneto is totally pants when it comes 
 to melee, even though he's really good in manipulating metal objects. Iceman is good for aerial 
 and ranged attacks, but put him in a tight situation and he's a goner. And Nightcrawler, what can 
 I say about him? For all his teleporting abilities, he's largely used to slow time instead of engaging 
 into something more destructive. I understand that the developer will want the player to switch 
 around the players during the course of a mission, and mind you, they made the switching really 
 easy (just tap the shoulder buttons) . But the over reliance on stylus play, and the mutants' inabilities 
 to do simple functions make the game feels really restrictive and subdued. 
  
  The gameplay isn't the game's only pitfall. For a game that's developed for a "current-generation" 
 handheld in the DS, the presentation of X-Men: The Official Game is just horrendous. I know that 
 the DS is not exactly your PSP, but it certainly isn't a GBA as well. The character models are 
 ridiculously blocky and distorted, and the background details are totally uninspired. The only 
 reasonably done aspect of the graphics is the animated cut-scenes, which (vaguely) resemble comic 
 panels. The sound effects are also weak and repetitive, offering nothing of note for a franchise 
 that you'd expect to be more cinematic than others. I don't like to use the word, but short-changed 
 is exactly how I felt as I played through the first few levels of the game. 
  
  All in all, X-Men: The Official Game for the DS just doesn't live up to the hype that the movie 
 is generating. Inept elements aside, if you're playing the game just for the backstory to X-Men 
 III: The Last Stand, you'd be terrible disappointed, since the explanation for Nightcrawler's disappearance 
 in the movie is as badly conceived as the game itself. I've not rated a game so poorly in years, 
 and I hope that this is the last time that I come across something so painfully bad again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogreg8
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 1:56 am PT
Review:  the game wasn't very good and the gameplay wasn't good aswell. i would reccomend the do a sequel 
 with better graphics and gameplay so that this game would be more popular. also this game should 
 include differant charecters from differant movies. there is a game called jump superstar (origanally 
 from japan) which includes more than like 15 differant comic characters. afterall this game wasn't 
 a much worthy game and it should be better cause it's "X-MEN" isn't it. but anyway i think we should 
 support this game cause the story is kinda old... they need some brand new ideas and more characters 
 and more games. good luck on that "X-MEN" 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
