-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Xiaolin Showdown
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/xiaolinshowdown/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid brawler with a healthy variety of enemies and attacks.
 Levels are large and there's plenty to do in them.
 You're constantly unlocking new attacks and magical abilities.
 Sweet cel-shaded graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Isometric viewpoint and sketchy hit detection sometimes lead to cheap hits.
 Characters walk as if they're wading through pudding.
 The lack of a co-op mode is tragic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 24, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 6.3, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 53 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Razorback Dev
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Nov 28, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Xiaolin Showdown has its problems, but it's generally a solid beat-'em-up. 

  For those of you who aren't familiar with the  Xiaolin Showdown  animated TV show, all you really 
 need to know is that it involves two rival gangs of young martial artists who are constantly fighting 
 each other and participating in bizarre competitions to acquire magical objects called Shen Gong 
 Wu. These Shen Gong Wu give the bearer the ability to perform powerful elemental attacks or to 
 cast curses on people. The Nintendo DS rendition of Xiaolin Showdown is an adventurous beat-'em-up 
 that incorporates all of the show's signature aspects. In the game, you choose from four different 
 Xiaolin warriors and use your chosen character's fisticuffs and magic to work through dozens of 
 huge levels populated with automated hazards and rival Heylin warriors. The gorgeous cel-shaded 
 graphics grab hold of your attention right from the start, and the game does a good job of maintaining 
 that attention by constantly introducing new enemies and giving you additional attack moves. Problems 
 related to hit detection and character movement suck away some of the fun, but not so much that 
 fans of the show won't enjoy themselves. Ultimately, the real tragedy is how the development team 
 neglected to take advantage of the system's wireless capabilities and implement a co-op mode.  
 

          Xiaolin Showdown is an arcade-style brawler with an emphasis on collecting new attacks 
 and magical abilities.     

  As beat-'em-ups go, this one is eye-catching, lively, and packed with variety. The isometric viewpoint 
 and cel-shaded graphics bring the world of Xiaolin Showdown to life without skimping on flair or 
 detail. Many rooms have machines operating in them or structures that fall apart when you walk 
 past them. In most rooms, you can pick up and smash objects such as tables and chairs. Character 
 animation is fluid and whimsical. Sure, the fighting is violent, but the violence in this game 
 is more goofball than serious. The brief comments the characters make when taking damage or performing 
 Shen Gong Wu attacks also lighten the mood quite a bit. The developers could have come up with 
 music more appropriate than the orchestral anthems that play from room to room, but the music is 
 at least catchy and of a high quality. All told, the game looks and sounds like a modernized take 
 on one of Konami's classic arcade beat-'em-ups from yesteryear.  

  Xiaolin Showdown is also more ambitious in scope than the typical beat-'em-up. A single level can 
 take as much as a half hour to finish. Each level incorporates a multitude of hallways and optional 
 rooms. In most of those rooms, you'll face wave after wave of enemies, which you have to dispatch 
 by beating the living daylights out of them. Each enemy has two or three different attacks, and 
 the CPU generally does a good job of mixing up attacks, retreating, or ganging up on your character 
 based on the situation. Every hit you take will drain your character's health by a small amount. 
 The goal is to get through each level without running out of health three times, thus using up 
 all three of your character's lives. For your part, each of the four characters you can pick from 
 can punch, kick, jump, and block, as well as pick up and toss certain enemies and objects. Punches 
 and kicks can be chained together to perform stylish combinations. Each character knows only a 
 couple of combinations at the beginning of the game, but you can add new combinations to his arsenal 
 by spending experience points at the temple between levels. When your character's chi meter is 
 filled to a certain point, you can perform a Shen Gong Wu attack. These attacks are flashy and 
 tend to take out multiple enemies in a single use. Before a level begins, you get to pick two Shen 
 Gong Wu abilities for your character. There are only four Shen Gong Wu to choose from at the beginning 
 of the game, but you can unlock as many as 20 by collecting the amulets that are scattered throughout 
 the levels.  

  In the show, if two rival fighters grab a Shen Gong Wu at the same time, they have to participate 
 in a Xiaolin showdown to see who gets to keep the prize. These showdowns aren't no-holds-barred 
 fights. Instead, they usually take the form of bizarre talent competitions. These wacky showdowns 
 have been implemented in the game as minigame challenges. In various spots, a Heylin stooge will 
 appear and challenge your character to one of four different minigames. These minigames all employ 
 the use of the touch screen and involve such off-the-wall tasks as choreographed cheering or river 
 rafting. While these minigames certainly feel out of place in a beat-'em-up-style game, they're 
 tolerable here because they're not overly complex and provide an occasional breather from the otherwise 
 constant fisticuffs.  

  While the game is generally enjoyable, it does suffer from a few annoying problems related to hit 
 detection and character movement. The isometric viewpoint can make jumping over hazards or across 
 gaps difficult. Practically speaking, that's not a big deal, since each level has only a few spots 
 where you need to jump over something. Nevertheless, it's frustrating to lose some health or an 
 entire life just because the skewed graphics led you astray. The hit detection can also be bothersome 
 at times. Attacks have a tendency to connect even if they miss by a few pixels. This is most obvious 
 with magic and projectile attacks, which can hit even when there's a full character's width of 
 space between you and the explosion. As annoying as those flaws are, at least they're intermittent. 
 A more constant annoyance is the sluggish speed at which the characters move. The heroes walk so 
 slowly that enemies can outrun them just by walking backward! It doesn't take long before you figure 
 out that you can cover twice as much ground by jumping, which means that you'll soon find yourself 
 hopping around like a bunny rabbit in order to be able to move at a reasonable pace. None of these 
 problems ruin the game, but they're certainly the sort of obvious sloppiness that should have been 
 fixed during the development process.  

          The imprecise hit detection and sluggish characters can prove annoying at times, but the 
 real letdown is the absence of a cooperative multiplayer mode.     

  By far, however, the biggest oversight is the lack of a cooperative play mode. The four bonus minigames 
 allow two players to compete wirelessly, but the main mode is strictly a solo undertaking. That's 
 tragic, considering that beat-'em-ups are infinitely more fun when a second player is involved. 
 It's also not too much of a stretch to think that people would be more tolerant of the flaws mentioned 
 above if they were able to play through the game with a friend. Further adding salt to the wound 
 is the realization that the game seems to have been designed with co-op play in mind. The hallways 
 and rooms in the levels are spacious, the game can push a half-dozen enemy characters without slowing 
 down, and the character roster already lets you pick from four different heroes. The only thing 
 that's missing is the option to invite a friend into a game.  

  All things considered, Xiaolin Showdown is a decent beat-'em-up that will probably satisfy fans 
 of the show it's based on. You have to wonder, however, just how awesome the game might have been 
 if the developer had only taken the time to iron out the kinks or to implement a co-op mode.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: windmaster42
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  This short but sweet game is awesome I loved it .It has all the good stuff you need it a great 
 beat 'em up game large areas with serect 
  path that lead you to the cool yin yang world. cool characters 
  with each having their own fighting 
 style, huge variety of enemy
  and bosses including the inferiess but funny Jack Spicer. the 
  Xiaolin showdowns are fun but 
 it sucks you can't play them in multiplayer.
  No offense but anyone who doesn't like this obviously must
  not be a fan of beat 'em ups or Xiaolin 
 Showdown which by the the way 
  also kicks ass. The multiplayer could have been done better with the bonus games but playing as 
 Raimundo (or Om or Kimiko or Clay which ever you prefere) in story mode and kicking butt will always 
 pass the time no matter 
  how many times you have beaten it. this Gamee I would reccomend to anyone who likes adventure, 
 action, some crazy ass fighting and
  XIAOLIN SHOWDOWN.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
