-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Yoshi Touch & Go
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/yoshi/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great use of the DS.
 Presentation is colorful, charming.
 Single-cart multiplayer support.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Still feels like a tech demo.
 Lasting value limited.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 11, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.5, 53 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 1,589 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Mar 14, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The novelty of the gameplay is almost palpable, but so are the game's tech demo roots. 

  Lore has it that Yoshi's Touch &amp; Go began its life as a simple tech demo for the Nintendo DS -- a 
 proof of concept built to showcase the various unique functions of the Nintendo DS. The tech demo 
 was so novel that Nintendo fleshed it out into a full game, and so here we are. The novelty of 
 the gameplay is almost palpable, but so are the game's tech demo roots.  

          Protect Baby Mario with fluffy clouds in this video game version of a diaper commercial. 
     

  Based on the game's candy-and-crayon color palette, Touch &amp; Go seems to take place somewhere 
 not too far from Yoshi's Island, though the visuals in Touch &amp; Go are decidedly not quite as 
 stylized as those in Super Mario World 2. The sound design furthers the sense of whimsy, as there 
 are plenty of trademark Yoshi pips and squeaks, and upbeat, tropically flavored music. It doesn't 
 really push the technical envelope for the DS, but it's a pleasant package to look at nonetheless. 
 This is definitely a case where gameplay takes precedence over presentation.  

  Drawing comparisons between Yoshi's Touch &amp; Go and DMA Designs' classic PC puzzle/strategy 
 game Lemmings is easy, though Yoshi's Touch &amp; Go is a decidedly more tactile experience, putting 
 greater stock in quick thinking rather than complex puzzle-solving. There are two basic level types, 
 a vertical level where you have to keep a slowly descending Baby Mario out of harm's way, and a 
 side-scrolling level where you have to keep Yoshi, who happens to be carrying Baby Mario, out of 
 harm's way.  

  Your direct control over the characters is extremely limited, though you can manipulate the world 
 around them, which you'll do exclusively using the stylus. By drawing lines on the lower screen, 
 you'll create a string of small, fluffy clouds that will support your characters for a short time, 
 allowing you to create alternate routes to avoid enemies and obstacles. If you find that you've 
 drawn clouds that are impeding your progress or, heaven forbid, put your characters  in  harm's 
 way, you can blow into the microphone port on the DS and all the clouds you've drawn so far will 
 blow away, which is an elegant solution to a simple problem. Enemies can be dispatched by simply 
 drawing a circle around them, and in the side-scrolling levels, a quick tap on the screen will 
 cause Yoshi to launch an egg in that direction, which is good not only for taking out enemies, 
 but also for collecting precious coins and delicious fruit. Additionally, you can tap on Yoshi 
 himself to make him hop, and tapping him again while he's in midair will cause him to do a flutter-kick 
 jump. This is, however, the extent of your direct control in the game.  

  Most of the underlying mechanics are shared between both types of levels, but the experiences provided 
 are surprisingly divergent. As he floats down in the vertical levels, Baby Mario never leaves the 
 upper screen. However, your influence on where he goes is limited to drawing on the lower screen, 
 which means you have to draw your clouds based on where you  think  he will be a few seconds after 
 you draw. Such a buffer doesn't exist as Yoshi trots along the side-scrolling levels, though the 
 game compensates by throwing more enemies and obstacles at you while enforcing a stringent one-hit 
 kill policy. We found the vertical levels to be more attractive because of the heavier strategic 
 elements, though the urgency of the side-scrolling levels has a certain appeal, too. Either way, 
 the game can become manic and challenging rather quickly.  

  A big part of Yoshi's Touch &amp; Go is having to come up with solutions on the fly -- at least, 
 when you first start playing. Unfortunately, the game is structured in such a way that you'll find 
 yourself going through the same few levels over and over again, and eventually rote memorization 
 supplants actual skill. The game does wring quite a bit out of this simple concept, though, by 
 including a bunch of different modes of play. The score attack mode puts you through a single vertical 
 level and a single side-scrolling level, challenging you to score as many points as you can over 
 the course of the two levels. In the marathon mode, your goal is simply to go for as long as you 
 can without dying, with your performance measured in yards. Once you've secured the high score 
 in these modes, you can unlock two additional modes, each of which introduces a timer in its own 
 unique way.  

          There are some great concepts at work here, but the follow-through is halfhearted.     
 

  Touch &amp; Go also has wireless multiplayer support, and pleasantly, you only need one copy of 
 the game to play. It's a basic two-man race where you can cause spiky obstacles to appear on your 
 opponent's screen by clearing out enemies on your own screen. The limited scope of the multiplayer 
 keeps it from being as compelling as the single-player game, but it stands as a nice addition to 
 the package regardless.  

  Ultimately, Yoshi's Touch &amp; Go is a clever, charming little game, but it doesn't really go 
 anywhere. The gameplay concepts that are at work here are quite sound, but the game seems content 
 to let the novelty of it all carry the weight. It's a great example of a game that you honestly 
 couldn't pull off on any other system, but for all its innovation, Yoshi's Touch &amp; Go simply 
 lacks substance.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (118 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jercioh
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 30, 2009 5:54 am PT
Review:  The game begins with three different gameplay modes: "Score Attack", "Marathon", and the "multiplayer 
 vs. mode". Additionally, the player can unlock "Time Attack" and "Challenge modes" by getting the 
 high score in the "Score Attack" and "Marathon" modes. When the high score on the two new modes 
 is achieved, the mini-game "Balloon Trip" is unlocked. There are two basic level types. A vertical 
 level, where the player must lead Baby Mario through the sky safe to the ground and a side-scrolling 
 level, where the player takes control over different Yoshis, carrying Baby Mario on their back.
 
  
  This attribute allows to create alternate routes to avoid enemies and obstacles. If the drawn clouds 
 are impeding the progress, they disappear by blowing into the microphone (it should be noted that 
 sometimes, blowing into the microphone won't work for the DS Lite) . Enemies can be dispatched by 
 drawing circles on them, which puts most of them into a bubble. In the side-scrolling level, a 
 Yoshi can make an egg out of fruits by leading them to its mouth. By tapping on the screen, the 
 Yoshi will launch an egg in that direction, which is useful for killing enemies or collecting coins 
 and fruits. By tapping on a Yoshi himself, the player can make him jump, and tapping him again 
 while he's in midair will cause him to do a flutter-kick jump.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  It's difficult to judge fairly a game made at the beginning of the DS lifespan like this one, well 
 not really, but this one in particular actually, the biggest reason may be that the Nintendo DS 
 strays too much away from everything we had seen on handhelds before, it has a wider field to explore 
 in gaming and allows the possibility of new ways for games to be played, and this game can be seen 
 as a demo of what the system could do, the innovation brought in playing video games and the Nintendo 
 DS system itself, as it when exhibited in stores could attract possible consumers and all that 
 since it's casual fun, easy and charismatic, with Yoshi and Baby Mario playing an important role 
 on this, also pretty much accessible with anyone being able to at least try to play, and with the 
 DS not staying too much on the field of classic video game console, even non-gamers would be interested.
 
  
  As a game it is flawed, even more if judged by today standards with more and more games using better 
 and better the touch screen, this is slow paced and gets boring easily, but could serve of a little 
 fun, even though my recommendation is that there's way more better games out there.
  
  You play in two different levels, in the Sky level and the Ground level, pretty straight forward, 
 you'll first find yourself falling down from the sky, the Sky level, then after reaching the ground 
 you'll play only there until the end, a very short game. The game consists on drawing cloud to 
 advance, in Sky mode you draw the clouds while falling and change the direction of Baby Mario, 
 you can also circle enemies and throw the coins they release to Baby Mario. In the Ground level 
 you can ride through the lower screen drawing clouds to stay high in the air, kill enemies or trap 
 them, you can also shoot eggs by just taping the screen on certain directions.
  
  The touch screen itself responds quite well, hardly you'll try to make something and end up not 
 achieving the desired results, maybe the whole circling enemies in sky mode is the toughest move 
 to perform, but a circle is a circle, it won't always be perfect.
  
  There's four types of game modes, Score Attack, Marathon, Time Attack and Challenge. In Score Attack 
 you will play both courses once and see what sore you get, the more the best. In Marathon you face 
 an non-stop marathon to see until where you can go before you die in the game or die in real life 
 of boredom. Time Attack is a race against the clock, and Challenge is also a race against the clock, 
 but if your time runs out you're dead.
  
  It wasn't good even at the time, and time wasn't nice to Yoshi's Touch and Go, as far as time goes, 
 much better games come and with it more motives of not picking this game up also come, maybe little 
 children would benefit more with Yoshi Touch and Go, but I wouldn't put my on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperjj3000
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  I got this game when i first got my DS thinking it was gonna be great since im a huge mario fan, 
 i couldnt have been more wrong. The game starts with 3 different modes which are score attack, marathon 
 and multiplayer. This game has just 2 types of levels, the first all you have to do is guide baby 
 mario through the sky to the ground, the second lvl has mario on yoshis back. You cant directly 
 control yoshi either, you have to use the stylus to make clouds for him to walk on and if you dont 
 draw them in time then its game over and start from the beginning. 
  The controls are great the graphics are cute but the gameplay is really... short. I think even the 
 biggest mario fans will get bored of this in about 10 minutes. Its fine if you just want a quick 
 10 minute play but dont expect more from it then that! 
  
  I wouldnt really recommend this for any gamer, it has no lasting appeal. So you've been warned, dont 
 waste your money on this, its not worth more then 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dymond7
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  Now, like I said in the Review Deck, this isn't a bad game, it's a very good tech demo, but it's 
 not a game, It has no story, it's just.. there to show us what the DS can do.
  
  I mean, it has a score system, it has fine graphics, but honestly, it should've been worth 15$, 
 because I hate the fact that I spend 25$ on this, but if your one of those people who just pick's 
 up a game and play's it for about 5-10 minutes, than this shouldn't disapoint, but there are a 
 lot of better ganmes.
  
  Now, I'm not saying that it's bad, I don't think I ever played a DS game with Stylus control's 
 as good as this, the control's for this game are excellent.
  
  but I do not reccomend it for Yoshi fan, stick with Yoshi's Island DS, If your a DS game collector, 
 than I suggest you get it for about 10-15$, don't pay a lot for it.
  
  but like I said, it has perfect controls, good graphics, but it's not an actual game and it has 
 NO replay value AT all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Good Stuff:
  .The first yoshi game on DS.
  .Somewhat addictive at the start.
  .Nice use of the touch pen.
  .You can just keep on going as the game lasts forever.
  .Nice 
 yoshi-style graphics.
  
  Bad Stuff: 
  .Complete lack of storyline.
  .Can get stressful.
  .The game gets boring quickly.
  .Lacking depth.
  
  (continuing from 
 the review title) then it just gets boring due to a lack of storyline. The game's modes all aren't 
 that good as well apart from endless mode.
  
  The closest thing to a storyline in this game is the challenge mode, but that's waaaaaaaaay too 
 hard and it isn't that good too. The game can get stressful too as you pretty much die after one 
 hit and yoshi is always going right so the screen can crush you (which I HATE) .
  sometimes as well your in a tiny little spot and there's about ten enemies after you and there's 
 no way to defeat them so you die. It's pretty much about luck if you want too get far.
  
  Now, with the bad stuff over I'll explain the things that make this game quite good. The game uses 
 some nice touch screen controls what is mainly used for drawing cloulds that can help yoshi and 
 baby Mario on there endless quest. You can use yoshi's clould-drawing skill for some things like 
 getting across holes, protecting yourself and even trapping enemies in your clouds.
  
  As the game lasts forever it can be kind of addictive at the start and for the first coulple of 
 days it can bring in hours of egg throwing, clould-drawing fun.
  
  Here's the summing up:
  
  Graphics: This game has some nice graphics and are in the style of 
 other yoshi games. But it still could of had some work to make it better. 8/10
  
  Story: The main problem with the game. It doesn't have one. N/A
  
  Sound&Music: The sound effects 
 are better then ever before but the music isn't anywhere near as good as othe yoshi games. 7/10
 
  
  Gameplay: Well, you play as yoshi of course and you just keep walking in the same direction all 
 the time for all time that can get addictive but the only really good mode is endless mode. 7/10
 
  
  Overall: Well, it is worth a rent of the game or even buying the full game for about 10 or less, 
 but don't buy it for the full price (30 I think) as it's only good for the first coulple of weeks 
 of playing it. But I do reccommend doing one of the two things listed above! 6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSonic20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  Formally known as Balloon Trip, Yoshi Touch & Go was originally shown at E3 2004. It was a simple 
 game that consisted of Baby Mario falling through the sky and it was up to the player to draw clouds 
 to create a safe path for Baby Mario to follow. On this path, Baby Mario could collect coins and 
 avoid enemies -- assuming the path created also avoided the enemies. The idea of Balloon Trip sparked 
 a lot of praise and Nintendo reacted to this praise by making Balloon Trip a full game -- Yoshi 
 Touch & Go.
  
  One of the most important things to realize before considering Yoshi Touch & Go is that this game 
 is not a platformer. Even though at first glance it looks like a platformer, Yoshi Touch & Go is 
 more of an arcade style game. You don't progress through levels and you definitely don't fight 
 any bosses. Yoshi Touch & Go is all about racking up the highest scores, quick reflexes and good 
 coordination.
  
  Yoshi Touch & Go is actually the first Nintendo DS game to use all of its features. This includes 
 dual screen, touch screen, wireless play and even the microphone. This proved that Yoshi Touch 
 & Go was not only innovative and refreshing, but is clearly a game designed only for the Nintendo 
 DS.
  
  Story
  The story of Yoshi Touch & Go is far from being involved and interactive. In fact, there's not 
 much of a story at all. The story basically consists of a single stork flying through the air that 
 happens to be carrying twin babies. These twin babies are Baby Mario and Baby Luigi. The flight 
 in the air is going smoothly until a dark creature swoops in out of nowhere and crashes into the 
 stork. This dark creature is Kamek, the evil Magikoopa and guardian of Bowser. The startled stork 
 drops the twin babies, which then leaves Baby Mario falling in the sky. Unfortunately, this is 
 where the storyline of Yoshi Touch & Go ends.
  
  Surprisingly, the story actually starts out very similar to Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. 
 In Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, once Baby Mario is falling in the sky he is caught by Yoshi. 
 Baby Mario then has to ride on Yoshi's back while they travel through Yoshi's Island together in 
 order to rescue Baby Luigi. The story of Yoshi Touch & Go stops when the crash between Kamek and 
 the stork takes place and despite the similarities, Yoshi Touch & Go's story hardly plays a role 
 for the game. The lack of a detailed story is a big disappointment, but at the same time fans of 
 Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island will be happy to see how this game can bring back some nostalgia.
 
  
  Gameplay
  Yoshi Touch & Go is split up into two sections, with the first section dependent on the second 
 one. The first section is the Baby Mario Stage. You'll have to help Baby Mario navigate through 
 the skies as he gracefully falls towards to the ground. By drawing paths of clouds beneath Baby 
 Mario, you can give him a safe path to follow to avoid clashing into enemies and allow him to collect 
 coins during his adventure in the sky. As Baby Mario is falling from the sky, three balloons will 
 hold him. This means avoiding enemies is very important! Every time Baby Mario is hit, a balloon 
 pops. Once all three balloons have popped, Baby Mario falls rapidly and then lands in the hands 
 of Kamek. If this happens, it's game over for you!
  
  Once Baby Mario is close to the ground, all of his balloons will pop. Don't worry; Yoshi will come 
 to the rescue and catch Baby Mario! This is where the second section begins. Now, the gameplay 
 of Yoshi Touch & Go will become a 2D sidescroller. However, you don't control Yoshi left or right 
 this time, Yoshi will automatically walk for you. As Yoshi, you will have to again use your stylus 
 to protect this dino from enemies. You can use the stylus to create a line of clouds that Yoshi 
 can walk on, which is very useful when Yoshi needs to go over a gap. Also, tapping Yoshi with the 
 stylus will cause him to jump. If you tap on Yoshi again while he is in mid-air, then Yoshi will 
 perform his famous move -- the flutter jump. Similar to how Baby Mario could collect coins in the 
 sky, Yoshi will also be able to collect coins as he walks on the ground. However, just providing 
 paths to reach the coins isn't going to cut it this time. If you tap the touch-screen with the 
 stylus, this will cause Yoshi to hurl an egg in that direction! So hurl eggs at enemies, coins, 
 and basically anything in your way to get the most points as possible.
  
  When it's time for controlling Yoshi, racking up points will either seem really hard or really 
 easy to do. Since both stages of gameplay are dependent on one another, how many points you rack 
 up in the Baby Mario stage actually determines what colored Yoshi you will get during Yoshi's stage. 
 There are several different colored Yoshies -- such as green, blue, and even yellow. While all 
 the Yoshies have the same abilities, they do have some differences. Some Yoshies can hold more 
 eggs and even walk faster. For example, a green Yoshi can hold twenty eggs and walk at a constant 
 pace. However, score enough points and you will be awarded with a yellow Yoshi, who can hold forty 
 eggs and walk much faster than the green Yoshi. As you might have guessed, the more eggs you have 
 the better -- it increases your chance of gaining the most points while controlling Yoshi. However, 
 don't worry about running out of eggs to use during Yoshi's adventure. Even when you have the Yoshi 
 that holds the least amount of eggs, Yoshi can eat fruits to replenish his egg count! Different 
 fruits, such as melons and grapes, will give Yoshi different amounts of eggs back.
  
  It might seem impossible to get such a high score just by collecting coins and destroying enemies. 
 Nothing is impossible, but there are many tactics that can be used that will make this goal a lot 
 easier. The simplest way of collecting coins is giving paths for Baby Mario to follow that contain 
 a line of coins floating in the sky. Usually, these are only gold coins that will add one point 
 to your score. Collecting coins that are worth more points, such as blue and red coins, gets a 
 little more complicated. These blue and red coins are either placed between enemies or even spikes. 
 Even though making Baby Mario avoid enemies is important, this doesn't necessarily mean to stay 
 distant from them. By drawing a circle around an enemy, this will cause the enemy to be encircled 
 in a bubble. The enemy inside the bubble will then turn into a coin! However, precision of the 
 circle drawn is taken into consideration. You must not overlap the circle, and ovals will not cut 
 it. Also, enclosing multiple enemies inside one bubble will give you a bonus, which may be a blue 
 or red coin. Forming the bubble is only half the battle. There has to be a convenient way to get 
 these coins to Baby Mario, and of course there is.
  
  By touching and moving the bubble with the stylus, you can throw the bubble towards Baby Mario. 
 If the bubble touches Baby Mario, then the prize inside the bubble is rewarded towards your score. 
 Unfortunately, throwing a bubble to Baby Mario can push him, which can interrupt his path that 
 he is currently following. After more and more practice, players will figure out even more strategic 
 ways of getting these coins to Baby Mario. This can range from having the bubble stay stationary 
 so that it becomes a part of Baby Mario's current path, or purposely popping a bubble near a spiked 
 enemy to have Baby Mario follow a path around this spiked enemy to collect coins.
  
  While these current ideas apply to Baby Mario's stage, the same concepts can be applied to Yoshi's 
 stage as well. Thanks to the combo system, this is the section where you will gain the most points. 
 If you hit five or more enemies and/or coins with a single egg, then you will obtain bonus points. 
 These bonus points are key to getting high scores! Players will notice that there are sequences 
 of coins, for some easy to get combos. Players can create more complex combos, such as creating 
 an empty bubble and using that bubble to push coins and force them into a line. Also, by drawing 
 a wall in front of Yoshi, you can slow him down which will give you more time to turn current enemies 
 on the screen to coins to gain even more points. Get the enemies close enough, and when you draw 
 a circle around them, it's then possible to get multiple enemies inside the same bubble. This will 
 give bonus points, the same way it works in the Baby Mario stage. As you can see, the ways to get 
 points are endless and it's up to the player to come up with their own creative combos to get the 
 most points.
  
  It's easy to make mistakes in Yoshi Touch & Go. Sometimes players might create a path they no longer 
 want Baby Mario to follow, or sometimes holding the stylus too long on the screen will cause a 
 cloud to form instead of hurling an egg. What has been done to solve this problem is the use of 
 the microphone. By simply blowing into the microphone, all the clouds on the screen will be blown 
 away. What a nifty way to utilize the microphone in a game design like Yoshi Touch & Go.
  
  While the gameplay of Yoshi Touch & Go seems simple, collecting points can be done in various ways. 
 Initially, Yoshi Touch & Go offers two different modes of play. These modes are known as Score 
 Attack mode and Marathon mode. Score Attack mode is basically all about obtaining the highest score, 
 or getting as many points as you can get. Marathon mode is more of a survival type idea, in which 
 your score is based on the distance you traveled. The distance traveled is measured in yards, which 
 is displayed at the top of the screen. Both of these modes have built-in high scores, which seem 
 impossible to beat at first but with practice it becomes easier.
  
  Graphics
  The cute and scruffy graphics of Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island are back and are more colorful 
 than ever. Yoshi and Baby Mario are nicely detailed themselves as well as familiar enemies such 
 as Shy Guys and Piranha Plants. All of the sprites are full of somewhat fluid animation making 
 Yoshi Touch & Go a real 2D beauty. Also, the beautiful backgrounds of Yoshi's Island are also back 
 to give an old-school feel to this game. However, what's even more impressive about the nostalgic 
 backgrounds is the transition of the times of day. Players can literally watch the background and 
 see the nighttime sky turn into dawn or even vice versa, when afternoon skies turn to dusk.
  
  Graphically, the game is solid. The graphics aren't perfect, but they do a good job in representing 
 the 2D graphic capabilities of the Nintendo DS. There are also a variety of environments players 
 will come across as Baby Mario rides on Yoshi. Players will see eerie caves full of bats, marshy 
 jungles and grassy lands. The graphics of Yoshi Touch & Go really fit the design of the game and 
 watching Yoshi squint as he performs the flutter jump couldn't be cuter.
  
  Audio
  Not only do graphics have some similarities with Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, but the music 
 featured in Yoshi Touch & Go does as well. As soon as players start up Yoshi Touch & Go, they are 
 greeted with an updated Yoshi's Island theme from the Super Nintendo classic. Also, many other 
 Yoshi tunes from the past are also played during the Yoshi section of the game. As for something 
 different, that's what the Baby Mario section provides. As Baby Mario is falling from the sky, 
 the music is calm and peaceful at a nice steady pace.
  
  The sound effects of Yoshi Touch & Go are what any Mario or Yoshi fan would expect. Yoshi makes 
 his familiar grunts and mutters in forms of "Woo Hoo!" the same way he did previously. Baby Mario 
 also has his own sound effects such as him crying once all of his balloons are popped. This isn't 
 the sound you want to hear, so have Yoshi catch Baby Mario and listen to Baby Mario say, "Thank 
 you very much!" in a cute Italian accent. Also, throwing up coin bubbles to Baby Mario will result 
 in making Baby Mario release a cute giggle. Even though the background music can get a little repetitive, 
 with all the enemies on the screen sometimes you rarely even notice.
  
  Replay Value
  As far as replay value is concerned, this can either be the one of the strongest elements of Yoshi 
 Touch & Go or it can be the most frustrating. At this point, it's really up to the gamer for it 
 depends on how much they enjoy the style of gameplay. Fans of arcade games, especially ones that 
 require getting a really high score, will more likely find Yoshi Touch & Go a lot more addictive 
 than fans of platformer gamers that enjoy playing through a series of levels.
  
  The main reason why achieving high scores is so important is because it is what allows you to unlock 
 other modes. Beating the high scores of Score Attack mode and Marathon mode will cause two other 
 modes to be unlocked. These are Time Attack mode and Challenge mode. Time Attack, as the name implies, 
 is all about getting to the end as fast as you can. In Time Attack mode, Baby Mario starts off 
 in the sky and now there are stars that can be collected in the air. Stars will make Baby Mario 
 move faster, which will obviously help since they will aid in getting Baby Mario down to the ground 
 the quickest. As for Challenge Mode, there's a lot going on here. Challenge Mode is the hardest 
 mode of all, since players will have to combine all of the skills learned to master this mode. 
 The basic idea of Challenge Mode is to get as far as you can in a certain time limit. Once again 
 Baby Mario starts off in the sky and can collect stars, but when it comes time for the Yoshi section, 
 things get twisted. It begins with a 100 second count down and once it reaches zero it's game over. 
 However, you can add seconds to the clock by killing enemies and collecting coins. As you can tell, 
 both of these un-lockable modes will require players to be quick and think fast.
  
  Yoshi Touch & Go also features a wireless 2 player multiplayer mode. It takes place in the Yoshi 
 section only, in which it's a race to the finish between you and your opponent. The first one too 
 1000m wins; however that's not the only goal. You also want to interfere your opponents path. 
 By making combos, such as hitting three or more enemies and/or coins, in a single throw will cause 
 more havoc on your opponents screen.
  
  If this idea of multiplayer is what you love, or if you can't get enough of trying to beat old 
 records, then Yoshi Touch & Go will offer the replay value you want. Other than that, there's nothing 
 else that will motivate you to play Yoshi Touch & Go for more than you have to.
  
  Personal Thoughts
  Yoshi Touch & Go works very well even though it might not please all gamers. 
 Yoshi Touch & Go was the first Nintendo DS game released that actually shows the potential of the 
 system and it's disappointing that it wasn't a launch title. When it comes to a simple and arcade 
 like experience, Yoshi Touch & Go definitely delivers. The game design is so addictive even though 
 it's not a platformer like many Yoshi fans hoped for. Yoshi Touch & Go at least deserves a try 
 and is strongly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofan404
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  ok this game can be a very quick one through repetition you know what to do you know when to do 
 it but i have some problems with the game. One there's no bosses... i mean what's up with that? 
 Second the gameplay is way to short. And third if your friend has it i suggest borrowing it from 
 him because 5 or 6 hours is all the fun your going to have. Its an ok game for hard-core yoshi 
 fans, but Nintendo i gotta say you let some of us down with this one. You start out guiding baby 
 mario through clouds and various enimies and must trap the foes in bubbles then move baby mario 
 to the coins to score points simple right? Wrong! while your focused on getting the coins mario is 
 falling faster then your eye's can focus then you realize your balloons (your lives) have popped 
 and its game over my friend. So in conclusion I would get it if i needed to waste short periods 
 of time quickly, so if your the type of person who needs something like that, then get this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  Yoshi Touch and Go is a Yoshi's Island game where you use the stylus to draw clouds to get Yoshi 
 across ledges, destroy bad guys and more. The levels are split up into two different types. The 
 first one is when you are trying to help Baby Mario through the sky. He will have a set of balloons 
 tied to his back that will pop if a bump into a bad guy are spiky objects that are just floating 
 in the sky. To not let this happen, you draw bubbles around them that will make them disappear 
 and earn you points. But you can't do this to spiky objects so you will have to draw clouds to 
 make him land and crawl on so he doesn't get spiked. And if you draw some bubbles you don't want 
 there, you get rid of them by blowing into the microphone. When Mario gets close to the ground, 
 Yoshi will see him and carry him across his island. So now you're controlling Yoshi using the same 
 kind of controls as Baby Mario's. But the Yoshi parts don't seem as good as the Baby Mario bits. 
 You'll never really guess what lies ahead Baby Mario, but you will almost predict what will be 
 ahead when you're Yoshi. Plus, you are Yoshi a lot longer. The Baby Mario level will eventually 
 end and you will be thrown onto Yoshi where the level doesn't end. And that's what this game is 
 all about. You're progress of how far you get in the level will be recorded in yards, and it's 
 just about breaking you're high score. There are some other things to do but that's all there is 
 and even after a weak you'll feel a bit bored and may not come back to it for a while. I try to 
 look at the bright side of it which is the gorgeous graphics and unique gameplay.
  Overall, Yoshi Touch and Go makes great use of the stylus and has great graphics and music, but 
 it won't be long before you get bored of it. 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  Check out my blog for other reviews on other great (and not so great!) DS games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grndyfn19
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Recommend ---People who love games with a point system and try to get high scores; fans of Yoshi's 
 Land
  
  Not Recommend ---Most people because this game isn't what you're expecting
  
  Yoshi's Touch & Go is a real big disappointment, possibly the biggest disappointment of any game 
 I've ever played. But still, it is a really fun and addicting game too. This game actually feels 
 like you're playing a demo, expecting more of the game to be open to you by the time your done. 
 That's not the case here, though. This is the entire game. Basically there are 5 modes: Score Attack, 
 Marathon, Vs. Battle, Time Attack, and Challenge. In all modes, you start off as Baby Mario who 
 is falling through the sky on 3 balloons. As he falls, you use your stylus to create cloud paths 
 to prevent him from hitting enemies. You can also make a circle around any rings or non-spiky enemies 
 you see and send them to Baby Mario so that he gets more points (useful if they're out of reach) . 
 Once, and if, Baby Mario land, Yoshi saves him and picks him up on his back. This is where the 
 2nd half of the game is, and the fun part. You, again, use the stylus to create cloud paths to 
 walk on, or you can just tap Yoshi to jump as many times as needed. You can suck up enemies as 
 Yoshi walks (he walks at a constant speed that you can't control) which gives him eggs, and you 
 can shoot the eggs at enemies or coins in the air to get more points. Again, you can also circle 
 enemies or coins and send them to Yoshi for even more points. So now let me break down the modes: 
 Score Attack is exactly what I just described, except it ends after that; it's only one level. 
 Extremely short. It keeps track of your score and you can always try to beat it (really repetitive 
 though) . Marathon is the same as score attack, but it doesn't end until you actually die. This 
 is the only mode that's really worth while because you explore many new levels and it's different 
 every time. Vs. Battle is Score Attack but against another player. Time Attack keeps track of how 
 long it takes you to complete a level and is like Marathon where it doesn't end until you die. 
 Finally, the last mode is Challenge. In it, new obstacles are set before you and you have to see 
 how far you can get while trying to avoid/destroy these obstacles. So as you can see, it gets really 
 repetitive. If they just made it have more depth and more levels, this game would actually come 
 close to perfect because of its level of challenge and fun factor. It just feels like a demo that 
 Nintendo threw out at the last second. The graphics are really bright and good-looking on the DS 
 screen, though, and this makes the package a little better. The sound is also really good and it 
 seems nostalgic in a way even though it's new music that's never been in any Yoshi game before. 
 I guess it's just memorable. So with all of this together in one package, it's really fun.
  
  Overall ---You'll have a blast playing it, but only for a short period of time before it gets 
 old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirdBerd
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 17, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  
 
  
  Touch and Go... I must say the first part of the game itself truly sucks. Baby mario flying down 
 the sky in a bubble dodging spikey balls and such by the provided route of the player's drawn clouds? 
 Yeah, that's the first part, and the rest of the game is just basically drawing, and you walk for 
 ages, you can't dodge or anything, you just draw clouds around the enemies to circle them IN the 
 clouds and turn them into coins. It really is NOT fun.
  
  There isn't really any pros about this game.. If you want a Yoshi game on the DS you're better 
 off picking up Yoshi's Island DS.
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic91
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Personally i liked this game. Being one of the 1st titles thought there wasnt to much to expect. 
 There are 4 modes: Score, Marathon, Time attack , and Challenge. Each one has a specific goal and 
 contain 2 parts to them. The sky part has baby mario falling and you draw clouds to guide him down, 
 or wrap around objects to create a bubble filled with something helpful. The ground levels are 
 pretty much the same only this time you can throw eggs with yoshi. All killing enimies, collection 
 coins, and reaching the goal of that specific mode. I will admit its kinda fun, but this game feels 
 only like a demo. Once you beat the 4 modes with high scores then what? theres nothing left. The 
 game will do at its lowered price now if you want to pass the time by, but then again you dont 
 pass much time with it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fienno123
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 8, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  ok i brought this. thinking omgz yoshis island rocks! this is a squeal. this was waaay before YI2. 
 so im thinking, d-pad movement nothing special. and then i realised all you do you is draw the 
 path! yoshi is on rails and is a complete dumbass so fk him. one hit your dead. you start from 
 the begining. extra lives or game overs? no just a lash of repeating the same level. which would 
 be ok if there were loads of levels, but no. theres only 2 levels and 2 locked ones. there isnt 
 a story its just getting yoshi as far as you can. i never tried mutiplayer but it probaly sucks. 
 so the game would be okay if you payed a fiver for it or downloaded it. BUT NO you pay 30 QUIT 
 for a 4 leveled game!!!!!!!! WTF, nintendo you have really let me down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursednavi
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is prabably one of the worst ds games ever. The only thing i can say is it had good multiplayer 
 and the game is fun for about 30min. There isnt much to do except getting high scores. There are 
 no bosses and no storyline. The graphics are ok. The sound is ok. The value is horrible i mean 
 30 dollars for a game that should be worth 10 dollars. The only thing exciting is getteing differnt 
 color yoshis which isnt exciting at all. My freind played it and said i didnt no there were demos 
 for ds and he was serious. I say this game could have used much much much much more. This game 
 proved nintendo is trying to hard to make differnt games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oekelion
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  No story, no purpose, no point, no kidding, its the dullest of the video games, Yoshi Touch and 
 Go! surprise, surprise. Heh, so it is that dull. All you ever do is draw clouds for Yoshi and Mario 
 to go. And you draw bubbles around objects?! Oh, you gotta be kidding. That's creativity. What 
 creative minds make is not this game. Creative minds make games like Final Fantasy. But not these 
 people who made this game. As a matter of fact, they were so dumb not to have a story. All you 
 do in this game is try to get a high score. Then you had to protect Baby Mario from Kamek's evil 
 clutches. Man, what was Nintendo thinking? No seriously, you guys. It is that bad. We now know 
 this is the main reason why the Mario games are going downhill. Sorry Yoshi. OK, now to to tell 
 why this game is atrociously bad in all ways. No features, just graphics, gameplay, sound, and... that's 
 it, no features. Just a basic DS kiddie game. How many Gamespotters say this game is a big rip-off. 
 Next to Mario is Missing and Mario's Time Machine, this is the biggest rip-off ever with the most 
 boring plot. They should not include drawing lines in any DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Nintendo DS-Yoshi Touch &amp; Go
  
  Review 17
  
  This is a very small game, and so this will also be a very small review. Yoshi Touch &amp; Go should 
 be a minigame in another Mario game, but it was one of the launch titles for the Nintendo DS, when 
 Nintendo was still testing the touch screen and testing the reactions of the customers.
  
  Also to be noted is that there is still no number rating in the Frustration Rate category, but 
 now there is a high/medium/low rating, although it will not affect the overall score.
  
  Game Genre: Action
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are surprisingly good for a launch title. Of 
 course, the game is incredibly tiny, but I was very impressed by the graphics. Naturally, they 
 are still cartoony like all the Mario games. They are very reminiscent of Super Mario World 2 on 
 the Super Nintendo, only better.
  
  Gameplay
  This game is a minigame. Thats all it is. There are two modes that you begin with, the normal 
 game mode and the marathon mode. The whole point of the game is to draw clouds on the touch screen 
 and guide Mario or Yoshi through little tiny levels.
  
  The normal mode consists of two parts. In the first part, you guide baby Mario through the skies 
 by drawing clouds around enemies and through coins. In the second, you control Yoshi, still drawing 
 clouds, only Yoshi is walking. Yoshi also has the ability to throw eggs at both enemies and coins, 
 and the amount of eggs you have is dependent on how high your score was in the first part of the 
 game mode. When you get 300 points in one level, you unlock a new game mode.
  
  In the marathon mode, you try to last as long as possible by guiding baby Mario through the skies. 
 When Mario reaches 3000 yards, a new game mode is unlocked.
  
  Controls
  I suppose I cant diss the controls. Being a launch title, Nintendo obviously wanted to make full 
 use of the touch screen. This category gets a low score because there isnt much you can do on 
 the touch screen, except draw clouds and throw eggs.
  
  Story
  There is no story. None. Nada. Zilch. Zip.
  
  Durability
  Yeah, right.
  
  Frustration 
 Rate (Medium)
  It is so incredibly difficult to reach the scores needed to unlock new game modes that its also 
 incredibly easy to just put the game down and never pick it up again. However, its still fun to 
 play the game when youre not trying to beat it.
  
  If you are thinking of trying to find this game and buy it, do not. If you have a flash card, download 
 it to try it, but it wont last very long. Its a neat little game to try, but like I stated, it 
 would be much better off as a minigame in another Mario title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hyper-Chicken
Rating: 5
Date: May 5, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I got this game as a gift when it first came out, and I was excited. I thought it was going to 
 be like Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. But when I started to play I was very disapointed.
 
  
  Story:
  The game has no story really, but a stork drops Baby Mario and Yoshi catches him..... thats it....
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are nice, clean and colorful, with sharp sprites, and some good backgrounds but theres 
 little enemies and backdrops which makes the graphics seem wasted.
  
  Sound:
  There is a few cheery songs in Yoshi Touch and Go, but they're short and repetative. The sound 
 effects are very annoying and they seem to repeat themselves because there's only a handfull of 
 sounds.
  
  Gameplay:
  Okay, finally on gameplay, When you first start the screens scroll downwards and you have to protect 
 Baby Mario (whos in a bubble) from various ememies. The control is touch screen only (with one 
 mic control) , you use the stylus to draw clouds and blow into the mic to make them go away. Circling 
 enemies with clouds causes them to turn into bubbles of coins which give you points. When Yoshi 
 catches Mario the gameplay is the same except you can throw eggs and the screen scrolls sideways. 
 Another anoying thing is that Yoshi is on rails the entire time, making the game more boring.
 
  
  Last Words:
  Don't buy this game, its boring and has terrible value, When my parents bought it it was $50 CAN, 
 which is expensive for a tech demo... Even now with its most likley reduced price, the game is still 
 not worth a purchace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HolyCheesus
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 21, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard a new yoshi game on DS, I quickly sold the clothes on my back to reserve this 
 game. Then I got it, played it, and beaten it in the first 5 minutes.
  
  First of all, this isn't a game. Its a demo of what this game could've been. It has 4 modes to 
 choose from, but they are all pretty much the same,.
  
  Yoshi is on rails, meaning you can't control his movement. You tap hime to jump, and tap an empty 
 area on the screen to throw an egg. You can draw little clouds to guide the little green dinosaur. 
 The game play is probely the highlight of the game. I enjoyed drawing clouds around enimies to 
 put them out of their misery.
  
  This game is a huge let down, Nintendo still made me pay full price for this demo. I guess this 
 is one of those games you pop in a year or two later to see if you can beat that old record. Thats 
 how I look a this snore fest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Core gameplay is a blast; innovative design; bright visuals; mildly interesting multiplayer.
 
  
  The Bad: Absolutely no substance - only two modes of play; feels like a tech demo; was obviously 
 rushed; it's $30 for an incomplete game!
  
  Yoshi Touch & Go is one of those games that could have been so good. Had it been an on-rails platformer 
 with lots of levels and such, it would have been a definite must-have. As it is, though, T&G is 
 an unispired waste of time that shouldn't have been released in its present state, and is worth 
 no amount of money.
  
  The fundamental gameplay is quite good, in all actuality. There's two phases: the sky, in which 
 you guide baby Mario to the ground by drawing clouds to avoid enemies and grab coins; and the ground, 
 in which you guide Yoshi across chasms and away from enemies while grabbing coins by drawing cloud 
 paths for him. It works very well, but that's all there is to it. There's one level. There's two 
 modes. That's it. No unlockables. No progression. Nothing. That makes this game practically useless.
 
  
  It's really too bad this game turned out like this. It has so much promise. It doesn't reach any 
 degree of its potential, though, and it comes off as a full-priced tech demo to show off what the 
 DS can do. That's it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubiseewaba
Rating: 1.9
Date: Feb 16, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I was very disapointed. Gameplay:
  If you think drawing lines of clouds are fun, well this might be the right gameplay for you.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are 2D. It's not bad but if it was more 3Dish like New Super Mario Bros. it would of been 
 more appealing.
  
  Sound:
  Not alot of good sounds. Not much music, only sounds from the characters and FXs so that makes 
 it boring.
  
  I thought it was going to be fun, but it was very corny for gameplay because it doesn't feel like 
 your playing it because you don't move the characters except up or down with a path of clouds. 
 I was very dissapointed. Do not buy this game unless if there is only other corny games left out 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashbash14
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 26, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi touch and go I a very simple game that uses both the touch screen and the microphone in the 
 general gameplay this is a very good game that I love because it makes very good use of the ds 
 features and does not get to complex. The bad points of this game is that it has no storyline but 
 that also means the game cant be completed and will be harder to get bored of with its very good 
 score modes, the game is drawing clouds to guide and protect yoshi and draw bubbles to capture 
 enemies and blowing in the microphone blows away the clouds. This is a very good game even though 
 it has no story line just the little marathons and score things could keep you busy for weeks and 
 weeks I would give this game a thumbs up but I want to know what you think so please email me your 
 comment on the game at gamefreak14@hotmail. co. uk.
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkelis
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game at first, but it seems like it has no point. It seems like a game full of minigames 
 that ends without a bang, this game ends with nothing. The colorful yoshi's and graphics are fun 
 to look at first, but the game is so repetitive in all the modes. This games is boring after the 
 first week, and u won't pick it up after that. Don't waste your money on this game like i did, 
 now i never play it. It isn't fun, unless u just like minigames, or u are a big yoshi fan. This 
 game is for hardcore fans only, and maybe little kids that might enjoy the overly colorful graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokeracc
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 24, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is a game you will want to pick up if you like repatative neverending games.
  
  Sound: the only sound is annoying mario music and yoshis weird noises....
  
  Gameplay: It is 
 way to repatative. The first few hours is great but then its just boring
  
  Graphics: This is a sidescrolling game. the graphics are subpar and the monster/creatures look 
 awful.
  
  Value: Though ive played for about 10-15 hours (more likely the lower #) only about 3 were really 
 enjoyable. This game was popular with the 6 year old I was looking after but over 10 yrs i think 
 it won't be your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faraz3671
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:25 pm PT
Review:  this game is not for everyone.... if u are the sort of person who just likes to play games once 
 and thats it then this game is not for u but if u like to play the game and then beat ur high scores 
 then this game is for u !!!
  the modes of the game are score attack in which u have to get the highest score, marathon in which 
 u have to go as far as u can, time attack in which u have to save baby luigi as quick as u can 
 and challenge in which u have to survive through the obstacles !!!!
  the graphics are great, the backgrounds being extremely cute!!!
  the music is too repetitive!!!
 
  to sum it up this game is great but restricted to some.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 29, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi is a beloved Nintendo character and the story in which Yoshi finds a baby and returns it 
 to his parents is the tale we all love, which is the story behind Yoshis Island. In Yoshi Touch 
 and Go, fans were expecting the story to continue, like a sequel. However, this slightly unpopular 
 DS game was no sequel It was just a game using that classic story in an attempt to make use of 
 the newly functional touch screen and double screen features the Nintendo DS had. In that perspective, 
 the game was successful, yet quite unsatisfying in numerous ways. Here is my review for Yoshi Touch 
 and Go. Nearly 2 years ago, the newest portable system, The Nintendo DS came to market. The first 
 few games were all fairly bad, no offense. Some were okay while others were just plain horrific. 
 Yoshi Touch and Go was on the border of the two types between bad and good. It didnt have a fully 
 plotted story, however, there was some point to it, although pretty unnoticeable. When I had first 
 purchased this game, I was at it for hours, because it was so addicting. This began to fade, and 
 fade, and fade, until up to present day where I havent played it for over half a year. What can 
 I tell you, the game gets boring! Like it or not, this isnt the best game on the block. Rather 
 than a new game, it seemed to me that it was an arcade game almost. Its a high scoring game offering 
 4different game modes. The first mode is Score Attack, a mode in which you only travel a certain 
 distance, in an attempt to achieve more points than the set scores. When starting off, tap the 
 screen to hurl eggs, hit Yoshi to jump, and draw clouds to get to higher distances. Yoshi will 
 automatically eat fruit. He walks on his own too, so there are practically no controls, just the 
 Stylus. The second mode is Marathon, which is by far, the best mode the game has to offer. This 
 is the mode I spent hours of game play on. I liked it so much. You simply try to get as far as 
 you can, without getting. killed, which can happen in numerous ways. Although you may be at it 
 for a while and eventually get bored, keep going: places eventually change as you travel further.
 
  The other 2 game modes are secret, so I wont write about spoilers in my review.
  Lastly, comes the Vs. Battles, which is multiplayer. This is another feature that is addicting. 
 You simply try to travel further than your friend, who you can view on the top screen. There is 
 a goal at the end, and if you are both still living, whoever reaches it first wins. If you throw 
 an egg at multiple things, enemies will appear in random locations on your opponents screen. Try 
 to get as many Egg throw combos as you can: its your only method of offense against your foe.
 
  Well thats it on the game play. Controls are tight and easy to use. The graphics are great, they 
 are nice and bright. Although there is a simple design applied, I for some reason like it that 
 way. The sound is catchy but there arent many different tunes. Knowing how cheap the game is at 
 this time, Id definitely recommend it, because it may be boring at times but it is worth it. If 
 you like using the touch screen, get this game, because it sure makes use of it. That concludes 
 this review.
  -OblivionGuy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadox_Ultra
Rating: 2.1
Date: Aug 31, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  This came is a very bad game do not buy it at all its like buring 35$ because you play it for a 
 day maybe even like 1 hour. I mean the graphics or ok and the other things that don't evnvolve 
 the gameplay. And the game is to easy and there only 2 places sky, or ground. I got it for a gift 
 so it dosen't matter to me much lol. I should've traded it in for a new game and I would do that 
 and i suggest you do that for sure. And its a little above average to do the controls. To summarize 
 it all up i would say its terrible and not fun at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Yoshi Touch and Go definitely strays from the usual Mario/Yoshi format. This time, using 
 the DS' stylus you must do two things... draw clouds to lure Baby Mario safely to the ground, and 
 tap the screen with yoshi to shoot everything in sight for points. This game in a sense is kind 
 of like an arcade game, there is no story, there is no point, its just simple and fun. While this 
 isn't really a bad thing, it isnt a good thing either. Those looking for a compelling story and 
 a long game iwll be disappointed, but thoise looking for a fun and challenging game will be pleased. 
 To mix things up a bit, there is also a single cart download multiplayer mode available.... even 
 if it isnt the greatest thing in the game. The best thing about the gameplay in Yoshi Touch & Go 
 i would have to say is its innovation. It uses pretty much everything the DS has to offer, and 
 it uses it all very creatively.
  
  Graphics: Yoshi touch & Go consists of a wide colorful palette that is nice to look at, but occassionally 
 the same environment gets kind of boring to look at over and over again. If you want to mix things 
 up, you will have to try and get throguh the challenging Marathon Mode.
  
  Sound: I found this to be a plus of the game. The music in the menu is great, and the majority 
 of the in game sounds like Baby Mario's grunts and giggles are well done. My only complaint is 
 that most of the music in the game is just reused over and over again.
  
  Value: Here is where Yoshi Touch & Go can come in handy.
  There are tons of modes to try, and 
 each can be pretty challenging. If you liek to beat high scores and you liek a challenge, this 
 game will definitely keep you occupied for a few days.
  
  Overall I found Yoshi Touch & Go to be very innovative and unique, but it still lacks in depth. 
 However I would easily recommend this to anyone who may fondly remember old school games, due to 
 the fact that this game truly does bring back simplicity and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purple-monkey2
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  eeeeeeew ok toatal waste of muney like come on..... four different modes that you can beat fast..... no 
 variety..... small game HORRIBLE over all.... this is one of the worst games i have ever played!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 then like im done and then i think "now what?"so i just reterned the game and said it didn't work. 
 the graghicswerent that bad but still like MAKE A BETTER GAME!
  in conclusion never buy this game. N E V E R E V E R !!!! if you want to buy a game buy lost in 
 blue or if you have a n64 buy conkers bad fur day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  Yoshi: Touch & Go is one of the first DS games released to fully use the touch screen. All of the 
 things you do in this game (draw cloud lines, shoot eggs, selecting options) is done by drawing 
 or tapping on the touch screen. While this is a nice feature to include, the direct control that 
 you have over Yoshi himself is very limited. All you can do is jump and throw eggs. You can't turn 
 Yoshi around, slow him down, or stop him. So if you want to defeat an enemy, you'll have to throw 
 an egg at the enemy or draw a circle around him. The graphics and sounds seem a little basic, but 
 they are all right. There are a few gameplay modes such as Score Attack and Marathon, but the overall 
 game seems very small and weak. I took this game back to the store for a refund about a week after 
 I got it. I don't recommend getting this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LINKTHECHAMPION
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a very hard game, which for me saved this game's rating from the 6es. This game is long, 
 which usually I like, but not an arcade style long game, especially without a storyline. I may 
 just not be giving this a good rating because I've gotten some pretty good games lately (Fire Emblem: 
 Sacred Stones, Ed, Edd, and Eddy Mis Ed-ventures, Fire Emblem: Path of Radiance, Dr. Muto, Yoshi 
 Topsy Turvey) but I don't like it. It is also very hard to learn the controls if you can't draw 
 very good or are missing the instructions (both of which I have) . This game had great potential 
 with its graphics and sound, but it was misused in making an arcade game. This game is priced high 
 ($25) and that is another reason I'm giving it a bad review. I really like Yoshi, but not even 
 Yoshi can save this game. I personally don't like arcade games, but if you do and you like Yoshi, 
 go buy it. The $25 I payed for it was a rip off, but you may not think so. I would've paid $15 
 dollars for it and not complained about the price, though. 
  
  Note: This review does NOT reflect my opinion on Yoshi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_Chezzy_x
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  This 2D "game" uses brilliant side scrolling, and dazziling graphics to bring the DS's new interface 
 to life. In fact, you cant even uses the D-pad or ABXY buttons for gameplay. You can only uses 
 the new innovative microphone and 
  stylus. 
  
  The story line is like, ugh, not there. I guess the plot is "Guide Yoshi until you make a fatal 
 mistake and DIE!" Even without a plot, main mode, or anything, Nintendo somehow makes this game 
 addictive. The game makes you keep on playing till you set a new record. 
  
  There are two game modes, and then two adaptations of them that you can unlock. The first game 
 mode is Marathon mode. In this mode, Yoshi side scolls until you touch a enemy, then you die and 
 game over. I got to 3498 ft. until i died. I cant beat that score, but i shall try forever. The 
 second mode is Score Attack. In this mode you have collect as many coins as you can until a bird 
 picks you up. I cant beat the pre set high score, its impossible. But if you can beat the high 
 score you unlock Time Attack which is explained quite literally. If you set the high score on Marathon 
 mode (which is not impossible) you unlock Challange mode. Challenge mode is like marathon mode 
 but harder and with alot of power stars. 
  
  The music is great. At least the title screen music is amazing. Its like a Japanese song that sends 
 sumbliminal messages into your mind that say "play more." The opening music is so good that I listen 
 to it while I do homework. 
  
  Ok the lasting appeal is amazing cause the game is so addictive. 
  
  Great game, I recommend 
 it to everyone. 
  
  Oh yeah one last thing. Go around showing people that you can blow the clouds away. Eventhough 
 you are just using the mic, no one can see the mic, and they think your DS is psychic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horus92
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 12, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  Yoshi Touch and Go. At first looks and playing I thought: Boy this game is awful. Yet after playing, 
 and passing the boring first part, the game turns really good, with a lot of different things to 
 do!
  
  Graphics in this game are as mario games: great!
  
  Sound is fun and satisfying.
  
  Hmm, what else? The game looks pretty boring at first and it 
 is repetitive, since the game is mostly the same thing: Move Yoshi throughout the levels. Yet necer 
 judge a book by its cover, play it. You won't lose your time and probably, even have a good one! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic2DAmax
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  When i played this at a local Wal-Mart i didnt know what to do... i though all you did was draw 
 clouds while baby marios disending. But my Friend let me barrow it and i though you could control 
 yoshis movement but you cant it does that on its own. I was really disappointed when i drew a odd 
 circle shaped like "0" and Yoshi threw an egg. And its unfair that each yoshi throws a certain 
 amount of eggs. And in the previuos yoshi games you eat a enimy and you get an egg but in this 
 game its all about the fruit. And another thing is when you blow in the mic the clouds disappear 
 but one time i was talking to my friend and the clouds vanished and i put on medium and when i 
 wanted them to go they didnt. You should be able to control yoshi and he should be faster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theluuk
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  k i admit it: yoshi touch n go isnt a full length game like yoshi's island, but it has the same 
 graphical style WTF. yes yoshi touch n go is plain arcade fun, and how! 4 dazzling modes of fun! 
 only using the stylus the microphone and the start button (a guys gotta pause, if a guys gotta 
 pause) this mkaes the controls simple and easy to learn. and yes the controls are cool it works 
 great, there will hardly be any faults with the controls. second thing to notice are the beautifull 
 2d graphics, mario 64 ds featured 3d graphics that match the n64, but yoshi touch n go uses the 
 ds's power the create beautifull 2d graphics, yes bright colours fluid animation, and.. plain visual 
 fun! 3rd the sounds: yoshi's voice is what your used of him, and thats the way we like it. the 
 music is happy and full of joy. but then under this surface, is an addictive hard game, especially 
 the marathon mode kept me playing
  and yes it has multiplayer
  
  bad points: no story, not too much to do. 
  
  my advice
  see if you like it, if you want 
 a full length in depth story line, beautifull 2d adventure on the ds, buy castlevani: dawn of sorrow, 
 if your a yoshi/mario fan, like addictive arcade play, and love bright colours BUY THIS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkadar
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 28, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Lost that little stylus that came with your Nintendo DS? Then get a new one to play Nintendo's 
 new highly addictive Yoshi Touch & Go, because the only button needed is the power buttonyou won't 
 even need the D-pad! This all stylus-controlled action offers the best game play the DS has to 
 offer. 
  
  Yoshi Touch & Go's whimsical audiovisuals are reminiscent of classic Nintendo platform games like 
 Yoshi's Island, but this is not a typical platform game due to its lack of predetermined level 
 progression or bosses, unless you count the Shy Guys that try to kidnap Luigi in Time Attack mode. 
 Yoshi Touch & Go is more of an action arcade game because the goal is to get the best high score. 
 The repetitiveness takes a little away from the game play, but adds a lot of replay value. 
  
  Yoshi Touch & Go has evolved a lot from the E3 2004 tech demo, Balloon Trip, and become one 
 of the most addictive Nintendo DS games to date. In the tech demo, your goal was to direct a falling 
 Baby Mario away from enemies and obstacles and safely to the ground by using the stylus to draw 
 clouds. In Yoshi Touch & Go, each mode starts with a "Balloon Trip" style section in which Mario's 
 score determines which color Yoshi he will ride for the next "Yoshi's Island" style levels. Drawing 
 a cloud bubble around multiple coins or enemies will give bonus points. Get more points to get 
 a faster Yoshi with more egg-carrying ability. 
  
  In the side-scrolling Yoshi's Island-style "levels," you draw clouds for the Yoshi that is now 
 carrying Mario in order to cross gaps and avoid hazards. If you mess up, you can simply blow into 
 the microphone to erase all the clouds on the screen. Touch Yoshi and he'll let out a squeal as 
 he jumps. Tap the screen in the direction of an enemy to get Yoshi to throw an egg at it. Hit multiple 
 objects with a single egg to get more points. Have Yoshi eat fruit to get more eggs. Get 100 star 
 points to play as Super Baby Mario, which allows you to throw unlimited eggs for a short time. 
 
  
  When you first play Yoshi's Touch & Go, you are presented with Score Attack and Marathon modes. 
 The point total in each section determines which Yoshi will carry Mario in the next section. In 
 Score Attack your goal is simple: Get the best score by collecting coins and eliminating enemies. 
 Getting the high score in Score Attack unlocks Time Attack mode, where your goal is to get to the 
 end quickly while defeating all the Shy Guys that are trying to carry Luigi away. Marathon mode 
 is a never-ending mode in which your goal is to get as far as possible. Get the high score to unlock 
 the harder Challenge mode. Getting the top high score in all modes unlocks a mini-game. 
  
  The only way to play as Luigi is in Versus mode. In this mode, you play on the touch screen while 
 your opponent is shown on the top screen. Versus mode offers a few more twists, but I'll leave 
 those for you to figure out. 
  
  If you're trying to unwind with a good story after a hectic day, don't pick up Yoshi Touch & Go. 
 If you'd prefer completely original stylus-controlled game play that is fairly easy to pick up, 
 but quickly gets frantic as you try to keep up with the action on both screens, this game is for 
 you. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilstuffs
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 28, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  ok, seriously read this...
  
  GAMEPLAY
  this is something thats imperitive to know: this isnt an dadventure or platformer or action game, 
 its a high score game. as such, it has many modes of which to play, b ut no particular story line. 
 the reason most people thinks it sux is cuz they werent expecting this. its a high-score game, 
 is that clear? and mutiplayer is fun.
  
  GRAPHICS
  i havent yet seen a fl; aw in its graphical capabilities
  
  SOUND
  the only flaw here is yoshi 
 sounds annoying and so does baby mario
  
  VALUE
  a crapload of modes, a game u can come back to when your bored, and classic super mario world II 
 style, this game has a great value. tho its not worth over 19.99
  
  TILT
  Grrrrrrrrreat multiplayer, and ooooooooooook single player, its quite an enjoyable arcadish experience
 
  BUT I REPEAT ITS A HIGHSCORE GAME, NOT AN ADVENTURE!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abid9
Rating: 6
Date: May 14, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi Touch & Go is a game I do NOT reccomend. I DO recommend KIrby Canvas Curse. This game is 
 basicly just 4 modes, plus a mini game! I mean at first the game can be quite fun, but it's very 
 short. Also at the first price of $35 is a rip off!
  
  Gameplay- This game is quite fun, first your baby Mario falling from the sky and you need to get 
 lots of points, which causes a different color Yoshi based on the score. Then as Yoshi you have 
 to do an objective based on the mode you are playing. Sadly after a few plays in each mode, the 
 game gets quite boring. The game could have been much better with an adventure mode!
  
  Graphics- The game has a nice backround, and nice sprites. Basically that's all, could have been 
 better as seen in Kirby Canvas Curse!
  
  Sound- The music is pretty descent, but it gets boring is not so good. The sounds such as footprints 
 are also here, but pales in comparison with Kirby.
  
  Value- This game is not worth your money far too short and boring go buy Kirby canvus curse if 
 you want to play a good game.
  
  Tilt- Overall this game is a 6, be warned as this game is NOT worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkmessaiah
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 14, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is good for introducing to some touchscreen abilities and potential and how it can make 
 really original games: and not only of the touchscreen, but of the incorporated microfone (it's 
 not really a microphone, but it's useful.
  
  You can use the stylus (the pen you use in the touchscreen) to create routes of clouds, make 
 a circle around coins and then drag them to yoshi or baby mario or defeat enemies and turn them 
 into coins or point your aim (with yoshi you can defeat enemies using eggs, you click on a certain 
 point of the touchscreen and then yoshi will throw an egg that describes a staight line defined 
 by yoshi's current position when throwing and the located point (so if the enemies are on the touchscreen 
 you can just touch them directly if they're not really fast, but there are also enemies outside 
 the touchscreen you may want to shoot for precaution or a better score) .
  
  There are many (about three/four) game modes, but they're not really different, some score changes 
 (one depends on the number of meters you can run without being hit instead of a normal score, etc.) . 
 So there isn't really a normal story/adventure mode like other Mario and Yoshi games that so many 
 people are already used to.
  And this is the main problem of the game.
  
  The levels (if we can call them that) structure is always pratically the same:
  -First Baby 
 Mario comes falling from the sky and you must draw ways to avoid him from being hit by enemies... be 
 careful that you see baby Mario on the normal screen, so you do the cloud routes carefully on the 
 touchscreen BEFORE baby Mario reaches it.
  -Then Yoshi catches baby mario on the ground and starts walking to the end of the level... you can't 
 control yoshi so you must be careful with enemies or holes. For the last option, naturally draw 
 routes or make him jump touching him directly (he can also jump on the air) .
  The micro (phone) is used to blow routes if you made a mistake, for example.
  
  So there it 
 is... if this were a tech demo at a relatively cheaper price then it would be really great, but 
 this is more like a demo than a game, it lacks deepness, an adventure, and if you want a game just 
 for fun with no adventure that shows the true potential of the DS particularities (touchscreen 
 and micro) , there are deeper and more complete games like Wario Ware Toched!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1k0_88
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 12, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  To all of you mario-fans out there... sorry for these harsh words, but when a game's not that good, 
 it just isn't that good. Of course it isn't about the great graphics, but more about the poor gameplay. 
 sure the game is fun and innovative, for the first 15 minutes.. after that it all looks familiar. 
 the levels just look too much alike, the only thing that's (sometimes) different, are the enemies, 
 and how you handle those enemies. You might like the game if you don't mind endless reproduction 
 sequences and level re-runs. It's just too much of the same, even the other gamemodes look alike. 
 It's just best if you buy a mario game that's more innovative than this one. Simply drawing with 
 the stylus and blowing the microphone every once in a while just doesn't cut it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jts9
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 30, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  this game is great for playbacks, but once u cleared all the modes, there's really nothing to do 
 with this game. the different colored yoshis make gameplay different everytime u play. i myself 
 was suprised of how long i was playing it. the game is so addictive. it mixes puzzle with action 
 into one game. now, the multiplayer is awesome. i sit down with my friends watching my glory rise 
 from 0 points to 30. 4 player would have been a bit better than 2. i love this game as much as 
 the next nintendo fanatic, but for people who are new to nintendo, i suggest u rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroit_rules
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 28, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi touch and go is pretty good. Its really fun to play but really short! Theres only 4 modes (not 
 counting battle) that you can choose from and 1 of them you have to rank 1st on score attack to 
 unlock it. Another bad thing about yoshi touch and go is that theres no story. all you do is guide 
 baby mario down to safety then defeat all the enemies and draw clouds that yoshi can walk on and 
 you cant even control yoshis movement. So after after a while it can get pretty boring! altogether 
 I think you should rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robin2d0
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 25, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  Yoshi Touch&Go: A nice warm-up for what the DS is gonna bring us. Good or bad? Read this review!
 
  
  Gameplay: The best part of Yoshi Touch&Go. You do everything with the stylus. Tap on Yoshi and 
 he jumps, Tap somewhere on the touch screen and he shoots, draw a circle around an enemy and he 
 becomes a bubble, and the most important thing, draw lines to make lines of clouds which Yoshi 
 can walk over. This is quitte good if you ask me.
  
  Graphics: 2D, but good 2D. Animations are good, it's nothing special but just good.
  
  Value: 
 I've played Yoshi Touch&Go for like 4 weeks, and then i got bored. Why? Was I stuck in some level? 
 Was Yoshi just sleeping everytime I wanted to play? My stylus turned into a mushroom and I had 
 to play it with my fingers? No, no and no. The problem is, there isn't a story, so you can't get 
 stuck on that. You can do only 4 different types of games, which really sucks because 2 of them 
 are boring as hell. The only way you can 'beat' the game, is getting a really high highscore on 
 one of the gametypes. Who wants that? Well, I don't.
  
  Conclusion: Yoshi Touch&Go is nothing more than a funny minigame. Can be fun, but first rent it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: computerman92
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Yoshi Touch and Go is a remix of Yoshi Island that was on the super NES in 1995 and then on Game 
 Boy Advance in 2002. Yoshi Touch and Go has four main games, to that you get when you get the game. 
 Also one mini-game. The a games are fun but for most will beat fast. Yoshi Touch and Go is very 
 shory unlike Yoshi Island which has many levels and stages. If the game was longer it would of 
 been much better.
  The game takes use of the DS's microphone, when you dont want clouds you blow them away. If you 
 love Yoshi and love the DS's controls then this a great game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenczas9
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 31, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  This is propably the worst Nintendo game ever made. Like I said before, there is no story mode. 
 If your thinking it's anything like super mario bros., you are sadly mistaken. The only innovative 
 part is drawing clouds to connect areas and get coins, but it just seems broken. I can't believe 
 Nintendo would do this. It seems as though they just made a little demo disk to show off what the 
 stylus could do, and packaged it into a game (which is exactly what they did) , hoping to get suckers 
 like me to buy it! You are definitely BETTER OFF WITH KIRBY: CANVAS CURSE, which is a good game 
 with a point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogogoman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  This was the first game i got for the DS and was happy for about a week of inconsistant playing. 
 The game presents no real goal exept to beat your previous score and quickly gets boring but is 
 a good game otherwise.
  
  It has moderately good gameplay and is easy to come to trms with and is easy to control.
  graphics 
 are clear and smooth but not all that brilliant either.
  Quite good and addictive tunes to play along to.
  Though i feel the money i spent on it was wasted 
 to a degree.
  
  I do not reccomend buying this because it is dissapointing overall.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMa729
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Another Great Yoshi game but this time for the nintendo DS. This game is nearly perfect.
  Well it all starts out as the stork dropping Baby Mario (again!) and then Yoshi ends up being with 
 him. The way you play this game is not exactly how you play with other games. The controls are 
 difficult knowing that you need to use the stylus. You either got to trap a monster by drawing 
 a circle around and it will turn into a coin. Also if you tap Yoshi with the stylus then he jumps/flutters. 
 If you tap on any other part of the touch-screen besides Yoshi then you can throw eggs at the direction 
 your pointing at. 
  The graphics of this game is amazing too. the graphics remind me of Super Mario World 2: Yoshis 
 Island graphics. its not nearly as perfect as the graphics of Yoshi's island but it is still good.
 
  The sound is amazing. The sound also reminds me of Yoshi's Island. To me it sounds the same but 
 they kinda changed it a little and put it in the game.
  So pretty much the game is Very good for me but if its not for you then... i dont know what you 
 see thats wrong with this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suraj182
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 17, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  When my mum got me this game for my birthday, I immidietly played it. But 30 mins later, I turned 
 it off. I only play it when I'm stuck on my other games or when I'm totally bored. It hasnt got 
 a good story line.
  
  In the first level, Yoshi is flying and there are these coins which you have to get. You draw clouds 
 around them to form bubbles which you can move to give to Yoshi. Or you can draw a track to let 
 Yoshi run into them. The more coins you get, the more eggs Yoshi can hold for the next level. 
 
  Pretty simple yet bores you if you keep playing it. 
  
  In the second level, you are on land and can shoot eggs. A bit like the first ones except there 
 are gaps in the course which you have to fill with clouds. Again gets boring after a while.
  
  And thats pretty much the whole game. You do it in different ways e. g Time attack, Score attack 
 etc.
  
  Don't get your hopes up if you are getting it. If you really need a game like this, get Kirby. 
 Certinly not this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilihead7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game, i had already read the reviews and hype on Gamespot, and didn't really 
 expect a lot. I was just looking for another good game to build up my DS collection. Well, i was 
 right about getting a worthy DS game, but it lacks in one of the most important areas-value. The 
 game itself is alright, but who wants to watch Yoshi run around for half an hour, only to be hit 
 by one enemy and have to start all over again? I thought that how the 1 hit KO thing is absolutely 
 rediculous, and without it, would have made the game 10 times better. Also, the fact that you need 
 to start the level over completely when you die, just stupid. And, don't forget how there is only 
 one, however very long, level in this game in which you can play. A great concept, but irby: CanvasCurse 
 actually pulls it off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigigreen
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi's Touch N Go is a game that was released early with the Nintendo DS. It stares Yoshi and 
 baby mario, as Yoshi is once again trying to protect baby mario. The problem with this game is 
 the complete lack of story, replay view, and just overall presentation of the game.
  
  The gameplay is really boring and repetitive. Besides the major flaw of no story, that game involves 
 you using your styles do many things, such as throwing an egg, or trying to guide Baby Mario. The 
 game gets this down perfectly, but after the first 30 minutes of playing, the game seems boring. 
 It really needed to be expanded.
  
  The graphics involve 2-D cartoon animations of Yoshi and baby mario, basically what you would expect 
 from a Mario game. The animation is happy and cheery, and it does seem to add very little to the 
 game, but after a while you really won't be impressed with the graphics.
  
  The sound is one of the best parts of the game. You get to hear some really old classic nintendo 
 tunes from Super Mario World and Super Mario World 2. The sound effects, such as Yoshi throwing 
 an egg, or baby mario crying is also really well done, and a nice little feature.
  
  The value of this game is extremely limited. You can beat the 3 different modes, and the game will 
 keep track of your score. You can try to beat that score, again, but the gameplay is not worth 
 the trouble. Overall, the game is too short with no plot
  
  Yoshi's Touch N Go seems to be more of a tech demo than a fully fleshed out game. Nintendo seemed 
 to want to showcase the capabilities of the touch screen with this game, and it does that really 
 well. Unfortunately, that's the only thing nintendo does well in this game. With the lack of plot, 
 poor gameplay, and no replay value, this game is a rental at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aviex
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  When i first started playing touch and go, my immediate thoughts were, is this it? The game contained 
 four single player modes an a vs mode. None of the modes were the story mode which, when i got 
 the game, were what i had hoped for. After playing the game for a small while, i found it wasn't 
 even that exciting! But what it did have going for it were the high scores. Seeing as both me and 
 my brother owned this game, he would be desperately trying to beat mine, and then i would go ahead 
 and raise the bar higher. This eventually got tiresome, and i stopped playing it.
  
  Graphics were ok, not as good as i would have hoped, but good none the less.
  
  Sound was what 
 i expected, so i wasn't that disapointed.
  
  Gameplay is WAY too short, and the game cost WAY too much.
  
  In the end, if you can get it 
 cheap, buy it. If not, don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4ft3rD34th
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a while ago, but it's one of the few DS games I've got that I haven't reviewed, 
 so I felt I should give my insight.
  
  This game is fun. You'll find yourself smiling and laughing at it for the first hour... and then 
 it stops. Well, unless your friend has a DS, that is. My main quarrel with Yoshi Touch & Go is 
 that it has very poor replay value. Once you've played through and unlocked the modes, all you 
 can do is simply keep playing until you've got a score you're proud of, and you gain nothing. It's 
 great for those who love to go back and get high scores and stuff, but for those who want a beefy 
 quest or adventure, this doesn't cut it.
  
  The gameplay is very similar to that of Kirby: Power Paintbrush in that it's a game where you move 
 from left to right (which can be changed) from one side of the map to the other, but the game feels 
 like a tech demo (which it was) rather than a finished product (KPP) . It has some nice touches, 
 however. It includes the ability to blow away your lines with the microphone and throw eggs at 
 stuff, and it makes great use of the DS' dual screens. The presentation of the gameplay is incredible 
 and if you're looking for something to rent rather than buy, I reccomend this.
  
  The graphics and sound are charming, the usual ones that you'd expect from Yoshi games. They're 
 good enough, but not great.
  
  The multiplayer is one of the few truly wonderful things about the game. You only need one cartridge 
 and one friend, so tell Billy Jones that he'll have to play with somebody else. Then, you connect 
 (which takes maximum 10 seconds) via DS Download Play and you're off on a race to get to the end 
 of the course. To inconvenience your opponent (who you can see on the top screen) , you can knock 
 enemies off your DS and onto theirs. The great thing about the multiplayer is that the rounds are 
 so fast and furious that you can play about 20 in ten minutes.
  
  Overall, Yoshi Touch & Go is a great, fun game, but if you're looking for something that you'll 
 want to replay over and over, don't pick it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 4, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  This isn't a piece where you hold the 'B' button and go around mashing 'R' and silly using the 
 'A' button. BRA. Anyway, this game is a game where you always use the touch screen and microphone. 
 No else. Just tapping in correct places and blowing intp the microphone. It's as simple as that.
 
  
  While Yoshi: Touch & Go is short, the gameplay is a little rushed. The mode where you go on and 
 on and on and on and on forever is repetive but fun, earning points along the way. Sound doesn't 
 count in this game; the music is normal, but cheerful and nice peace.
  
  Graphics aren't flashy as any of the DS games: In fact, it has a Yoshi's Island feel with both 
 gameplay and graphics. This is a game which should warm up your thumbs, and getting ready for all 
 the better games out there. An under-great game, but good for the newbies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martijncornet
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 3:34 am PT
Review:  I don't know why people say this game has no story line cause it has.
  The story is simply the exact story of Super Mario 2 for the snes, it only has no real ending.
 
  
  This is a very fun game to play with friends and very addicting. There never been something like 
 this before and it uses the touch screen very good.
  Its quite unique.
  
  There is no real learning curve in this game. I could play this game when I got it and you will 
 definitely spend some time with this game because you want to bring your high-score as high as 
 you can.
  
  It has several modes such as: time trial and marathon
  
  I really recommend this game to all Nintendo fans and if u like to play something you never played 
 before then you must buy this game too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Let me start this off by saying Metroid Prime : Hunters [First Hunt] is more of a game than this! 
 It feels like a quickly made demo to showcase the DS capabilities. Sure, its extremely fun and 
 utilize's the touch screen fully as well as dual screen's, and it can be addictive, but its lasting 
 effect is weak and the software itself is so small. 
  
  This game could of been a huge blockbuster, if it had a fun long length single player mode. With 
 the tools and system they made it had a lot of potential, but its simply a short lived arcade game 
 with some unlockable mode's. 
  
  Gameplay - 6
  Solid system and controls, but the gameplay itself is short lived and gets boring after a short 
 amount of time.
  
  Graphics - 8
  Good design, stylish placement with a retro feel.
  
  Sound - 8
  YoshI's trademark sound effect's are here as well as some very bright and colorful 
 sound effect's.
  
  Overall - 4.2
  This is such a boring and weak game, as a mini game or something its great. However, it's not a 
 mini-game, its a game that was full priced when i bought it and turned out to be a giant bore. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I really thought this game would be better. I got it for Christmas and although I love all the 
 other yoshi games I was unhappy with this one. It would be ok if you are not wanting something 
 you can get into that will take a while. The excitment level for this game was very low! I do not 
 think it was worth the $30.00 paid for it but would be ok if you got it used and paid only about 
 half the price. Was not at all what I had hoped for although the graphics were great and the sound 
 was good as well. Think twice before picking this game up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Its a great game for the DS and has great use with the touch screen and the double screen.
  
  Great and colourfeul enviroment and very aditive game to play, its alot of fun, creating clouds 
 and turning bad guys into coins, but the Gameplay does get boring when you figer out that the gameplay 
 is the same all the way through.
  
  I would'nt buy this game but get it free with the Nintendo DS.
  seeing as its free you wont feel 
 bad that you spent alot of money on a game that tends to losse its goodness.
  
  Some people love this game and plays on it all the time, that could be you, but it was'nt me, the 
 story is pretty lenghy if you wont to do all the coures and and missions but still its the same.
 
  
  Great game, but gets boring after a week or 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zman101
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  BORING!!! This game was very boring and a beat it in like 1 hour. There are only 4 things to do. 
 I guess it's a little fun vs. your friends. The only thing you basiclly do is fall down the sky 
 with baby mario dodging people. Then you finally get to the bottom and do the same thing with Yoshi 
 only your not in the sky your on the ground. All you baciclly do is see how many yards you can 
 go. I would not reccomend this game to anyone. This game is probly at the back of my closet all 
 dusty. Do not I repeat do not buy this game. Again BORING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmm0070
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  It's just a good game, i don't know why but you finish liking it a lot. It is very addictive since 
 you always try to make a new record. i recommend it to anyone who wants to play a game where you 
 just use the touch screen and the mic, testing your reflections instead that your gaming abilities. 
 If you finish getting the first place in all highscores, don't think that your game ends there... 
 Put yourself new goals as getting orange yoshi (i reached it) in marathon (endless) mode, or try 
 to get wite yoshi lots of times in the same game (also in endless marathon mode) (to get it you 
 have to play very well and pass from a black yoshi to a white one, my record is 2 white yoshis 
 in 1 game) . just play it a lot and reach HIGH records... (3000 scks) and you will finish loving 
 the game. my new goal is to reach purple yosi in marathon mode :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paratrooopa
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game is pretty high-tech, but Kirby's Canvas Curse is like an upgraded version of this 
 game. There isn't much of a plotline to this game, as it is too short for most players. Still, 
 the touching thing is pretty cool... I probably wouldn't be able to invent that in 1000 years. 
 But if there's no story, there's pretty much no point in playing. Some games are based completely 
 on story, such as Harvest Moon and Animal Crossing. Those games aren't filled with much action, 
 though... and are a bit boring in some cases. Now Yoshi is an awesome character and all, but this 
 game makes Yoshi look bad. The old Yoshi games were much better, like Yoshi's Island on a Gameboy 
 Advance. That game had a lot of stages and bosses, as well as a great storyline. The only thing 
 I don't like about that game is that Mario is lazy and doesn't do anything until he touches a star, 
 but that is a different story and is not part of this review... x_x
  
  I really don't know how else to describe this particular game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Australia-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 24, 2005 9:32 am PT
Review:  Yoshi Touch and go is a game that can only be made on one system, the nintendo DS. You must draw 
 cloud paths on the touch screen to let slow-moving yoshi travel across while dodging enemies. It 
 was very creative when I first played it, but after a while I just got frustrated when i lost at 
 3503 yards. This is just a game that just gets harder as you progress. Another bad thing about 
 this game is when you get hit, your dead. No lives, Your dead, you just have to start over again. 
 Alright enough bad stuff. This game is fun because you can throw eggs at people and draw circles 
 around them. This game has fun music and at some parts in the game you switch the color of yoshi. 
 There is also a good variety of enemies. Some enemies can be really frustrating though. I would 
 reccoment this game to anyone who likes touching screens alote? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaker88
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 13, 2005 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Not to say that Yoshi Touch & Go is a bad game, because it's not. It's really innovative and interesting, 
 but it just could have been a whole lot better.
  
  Basically you don't really control Yoshi. Althought that may sount wierd, it's not. You use your 
 stylus to draw clouds that Yoshi walks on., you use the sylus to control the eggs, and you use 
 the stylus to make bubbles.
  
  There are no levels in the game. There are only modes. There is a mode where you try to get as 
 far as you can travel, there is a mode where you try to get as many points as possible, there is 
 a mode where you have to save baby luigi, and there is a mode where you have to get far without 
 time running out. All of these modes seem to get boring after a while.
  
  Pros- Great use of touch screen and microphone, decent graohics, a nice amount of different modes 
 to choose from
  
  Cons- Not a great variety in different modes, graphic backrounds are the same, the game gets old 
 after a wile
  
  Graphics- Not horrible, not great
  Sound- Tunes are decent, they are not annoying
  Gameplay- Awesome gameplay, one of the best gameplay 
 for the DS
  Value- Not really worth your money unless you find a good deal on Ebay
  Tilt- Controls were great, I enjoyed this game for an okay amount of time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonjw87
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2005 11:16 am PT
Review:  This game is quite a disappointment in terms of playing time. The game has only four levels, two 
 which must be unlocked. I was expecting a lot more levels even if they were just different background 
 designs. I dont actually own this game, but i have played it quite often. 
  
  I would definately play this game, and you were to buy it I would recommend spending no more than 
 15 (i live in the UK) whether its preowned or not. If you get chance play this game or buy it cheaply.
 
  
  As an alternative I would probably recommend buying WarioWare Touched as this also uses all of 
 the DS's capabilities or maybe project rub. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiernanth
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 9, 2005 11:05 am PT
Review:  Crap gameplay, actually no gameplay, OK sound and graphics but it is a shame that so many DS games 
 are not in 3D, you would sell this within two weeks of purchase. It relies on the touch screen which 
 sucks if you cannot hold a pen properly and all games should use the pad, that's real common gaming 
 sence. I found the hidden message in this game,"Yoshi touch and sell". There is nothing more I 
 have to write about this game as it does not even contain a main mode which every game should have 
 as well as not having much in the modes it does have. Think of me as God who has sent a good message 
 to the people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martindprotts
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:31 am PT
Review:  This is a bit of a tech demo but I like it. The storyline's a bit upsetting but that's OK: it's 
 one of the hardest games on DS: and one of the better ones. I like the idea of drawing clouds to 
 guide Baby Mario through, and I'm having trouble completeing it.
  
  I reckon everyone should grab it. It's a great game. Sony didn't put a touch screen into the PSP. 
 And you can't do one-disk multiplayer on it, that's for sure. HEHEHEHEHE...
  
  Yoshi has to get Mario back to the stork, who's been htit by something strange. I reckon everyone 
 should buy it. It's a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 1, 2005 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Remember Donkey Kong? No, I'm not talking about Donkey Kong Jungle Beat. Donkey Kong 64? Think 
 again. Forget about anything you remember from Rare. I'm talking about Donkey Kong in the arcades 
 and on the NES. I'm talking about this:
  
  This is going somewhere, I promise, and has everything to do with Nintendo's touch-screen only 
 title, Yoshi's Touch and Go. Donkey Kong was a game that befitted the classic gaming era: four 
 levels that repeated themselves for as long as you could stay alive, a simple mechanic that was 
 applied around a difficult framework, and motivation to continue gameplay provided by your own 
 will as a true gamer.
  
  For better or for worse, Yoshi's Touch and Go is the Donkey Kong of the DS. And if you ask this 
 reviewer, it's for way, way better.
  
  Yoshi's Touch and Go is deceptively simple. Everything is handled via the touch screen and stylus. 
 You don't even control your protagonists, Mario and Yoshi. You simply draw clouds on the touch 
 screen to guide them on their journey.
  
  Your interaction with the touch screen isn't limited to that. You can also circle enemies with 
 clouds to entrap them in bubbles, turning them into coins. These bubbled coins can then be "flicked" 
 in any direction you please. You can tap on a spot on the touch screen to launch an egg in that 
 direction. And you can make Yoshi jump by tapping on him directly, tapping on him again while airborne 
 to make him flail his feet and "flutter" in the air. Finally, during Yoshi's stages, you also need 
 to guide him to fruits to replenish his egg "ammunition".
  
  So what kind of framework is built around these mechanics? If you were expecting something like 
 Yoshi's Island for the Super Nintendo and Gameboy Advance, you'll find no such thing here. Yoshi's 
 Touch and Go is definitely not a side-scrolling platform-action game. The action is centered around 
 guiding your characters around obstacles similar to Lemmings, testing your aim and perception of 
 angles, and overloading your screen with more hazards than you know what to do with.
  
  Each of the game modes begins with Baby Mario falling through the sky. He remains on the top screen, 
 all the while floating downards praying that you've drawn your clouds to help him avoid floating 
 spiny enemies. Floating Shyguys and Kameks come after him, though you can snare them within bubbles. 
 And of course, in true Mario tradition, there are bundles of coins for you to collect either by 
 guiding Mario towards them or snaring them in bubbles and flicking them towards him.
  
  The second game mode, where Yoshi is carrying Mario from left to right, plays almost identically, 
 though horizontally rather than vertically. There are also plenty of coins and enemies to hit with 
 your eggs that float on the top screen, and require a good sense of angular aim to catch. Couple 
 these goals for the greedy with the various bottomless pits, enemies and fruit, and you've got 
 an intensely frantic experience that's best described as a combination of Lemmings, Missile Command 
 (Google it) and a smattering of Yoshi's Island (for the graphics and the egg-play) built around 
 the ideals of Donkey Kong.
  
  Donkey Kong again? It's time I explain the parallel. Like Donkey Kong, Yoshi's Touch and Go one 
 "fault" is the lack of a cohesive "wholeness". You don't travel from World 1 to World 2, and so 
 on. You don't work towards an ultimate goal, and you're not motivated by story. Instead, you simply 
 keep playing randomly generated, somewhat repetitive and endless levels. You only get a single 
 life; when you get hit, you have to start from the beginning of your game-type (either the Mario 
 mode or the Yoshi mode) . This makes your motivation to replay the game driven by trying to beat 
 your high score and proving your gaming prowess - like Donkey Kong.
  
  The frantic nature of the game when enemies crowd the screen is what keeps this game lively and 
 entertaining. The totally fresh way of playing a video game by flicking, circling, tapping and 
 drawing on the screen feels natural after only a moment's learning curve. The feeling is like nothing 
 I've ever played before, and yet it still brings back the classic gaming "zen" moments when you're 
 on a roll and you feel like nothing can stop you.
  
  They say games are becoming art, what with drawn out epic stories, Oscar-worthy voice acting, and 
 spiffy graphics. I say that the artistry of a videogame is determined by how well it can ellicit 
 a joyous experience by manually interacting with a piece of software - before the glitz and glamor 
 are added in. Yoshi's Touch and Go is a shining example of this art. But like some art, it's easy 
 to not appreciate what this game is trying to do. If you must have conventional running, jumping, 
 shooting and killing, or you need a story and levels with a beginning and an end, perhaps you're 
 not up for experiencing the merging of old and new that Yoshi's Touch and Go has to offer.
  
  But if you're looking for a game that brings the DS' fresh capabilities to an old school, arcade-game 
 skill-based motif, or you just want something differently fresh and fun, this is your game. Highly 
 recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superzone
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi Touch & Go is a fun game that uses the unique features of the DS to create a fun experience. 
 It's just to bad that there isn't a story mode! There is just normal playing modes (challenge, 
 marathon, time attack, etc.) . That's not to say there isn't some length to the game though. Baby 
 Mario is falling from the sky and you must draw clouds with the stylus to guide him and avoid baddies 
 and deadly objects. If he gets to the ground safely, Yoshi will catch him and you must then guide 
 Yoshi to fight of enemies. The game looks and sounds great. If there was a story mode and some 
 more things to do, the game could have been better. But that's not to say that Yoshi Touch & Go 
 isn't a fun game. It's really fun, one of very few games to use the DS hardware to the fullest. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboystd
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2005 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi Touch and Go is a so-so game overall. The game is fun for about the first week, but it gets 
 very repetitive. There are 4 modes (2 you have to unlock) that you can play. The way you can beat 
 the game easily is if you have mastered using the stylist. The entire game is controlled by it. 
 So if you're bad with it, I suggest you look for another game.
  Any of the modes start off with Baby Mario floating from the ground. You have to create a cloud 
 path away from the monsters that are heading after him. You can also circle the coins and monsters 
 and throw them at Baby Mario to give you points, and it also slightly changes his direction. Once 
 Baby Mario reaches the ground, he lands on Yoshi. The color of Yoshi depends on how many points 
 you scored. The more points you score, the faster your Yoshi will go and the more eggs it will 
 carry.
  Your adventure begins with Yoshi walking down a road with a bunch of stuff in the air. Throw eggs 
 to hit them, giving you points. There are also fruits that you can get Yoshi to eat if you circle 
 them and throw them at him. Those fruits give Yoshi more eggs. The way to throw Yoshi's eggs is 
 if you click with the stylist in the direction you want your egg to be thrown. Your egg will only 
 be stopped if it hits a monster or an object (not coins) . When you end your path, the stork will 
 take Baby Mario back.
  
  The game overall is fun for a little while, but eventually you'll get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdsteffen
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi Touch & Go is a decent game, but to me it feels like it should of been part of a much larger 
 game. The basic concept of making it as far as you can without losing baby mario in the end is 
 just a basic game that is fun to play, but feels like there should be more to it than what you 
 get. 
  Yoshi Touch & Go makes great use of the DS's hardware, and is a decent example of ways to use the 
 touch screen for future games. 
  In the end, Yoshi Touch & Go is a fun game, but better suited for a rent, than a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  What the hell is this? A over blown demo? This game is little fun. It takes mario's island 2 and 
 makes it really really unfun. All you do is stroke your pen over and over. Just do that till you 
 turn off your ds. Theres no real mode it seems and all them are the same. As do all the levels. 
 To make it even better it's a forced sidecroller. So you can't take your time you have to quickley 
 move your pin on all kinds of things. I got mad at this to maney times. I had no fun and I don't 
 think you will. In the end your $35 gets you a boreing unfun long demo. Buy kirbey it's more fun 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Etware
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  What's best about Yoshi Touch & Go is how there are so many ways to use the stylus and touch pad. 
 If you catch a toad flying in the air, you can circle it and it will turn into coins. Another technique 
 is making a bridge for Yoshi to cross. I find it a bit easier do this than making Yoshi jump. The 
 only way he jumps is if you tap him several time in the air. But an advantage of this is that Yoshi 
 can jump very high if you continue to tap him. When the stylus is being used, it leaves a trace 
 of clouds. If you happen to mess up on drawing a bridge, you may breathe into the Mic. and it automatically 
 disappears. And if you draw a circle around an enemy but miss, then you may drag the bubble towards 
 the enemy. These techniques make Yoshi Touch & Go overall a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cool_Grant
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2005 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi was my favorite mario character of all time, and because of this i might have been a little 
 too generous. It says its a game and you would think so but it seems too much like a dmo.
  The graphics are nice 2D and are very colorful and detailed.
  The gameplay is very solid, but 
 the Yoshi levels may be more sensitive to your stylus. 
  The sound is good with nice music and Baby Mario crying if you like to hear that.
  The only problem 
 is there is no story mode, and once your done, its just an arcade game. Single-car play is here, 
 but it only uses Yoshi's level instead of Baby Mario's. Overall its fun, and i might have been 
 to nice, but you should rent it if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryagainlater
Rating: 3.9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  yoshi touch and go is an extremely bad game and it doesnt take a long time to get bored with it. all 
 you really get to do is move while you're falling and hit bad guys and make clouds to walk on while 
 you're walking. another bad point is the storyline or the lack of a storyline. there is no mention 
 of a storyline in the game so you have to read the manual and its still a terrible storyline. there 
 is only four modes to choose between and two of them have to be unlocked. in all fairness if you're 
 into trying to get the highscore and you dont care about a storyline you may like this game and 
 the graphics are good enough. all in all not a good game and i wouldnt recommend to anyone except 
 if they like the above 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feelgoodinc2005
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 18, 2005 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi Touch and Go is boring, and will bore you to sleep in 5 minutes to 15 minutes. This game 
 makes your hand hurt because of all the stuff you have to touch, move around, and stuff like that. 
 This game is hard to control the stylus, and simple to get high scores. i wouldn't recomend this 
 game for anyone. Yoshi fans might be disappointed in it. This games graphics suck like crap,! One 
 thing, unless you like your hand getting, hurt, your mind to boring yourself to sleep, and you 
 getting high scores by the second, I wouldn't recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dualscreenman
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:35 am PT
Review:  This was a very mediocre game with no replay value, period. It gave me about three hours of fun 
 before I basically beat everything. I'm not likely to ever pick it up again. After a whiel it just 
 gets hard and well... boring. This game is best played either multiplayer or should be turned into 
 an arcade game at pizza hut.
  Nintendo just tried to cram too much innovation into too little substance, and get away with it. 
 That's what happens with Tech demos...
  
  The sound was okay. No props. No boo's either.
  
  Graphics were okay as well.
  
  It got old soon. This isn't a very big review. Just as short 
 As Yoshi Touch and Go. This game will give the fanboy a big turnoff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I played this game and I am not pleased with this game because all you doo is draw some lines so 
 Yoshi can pass and save the baby.
  
  Gameplay: All you need to do in this game is draw some lines so Yoshi can pass. There isn't anything 
 you need to do except that and because of that this game bites!!!!
  
  Graphics: The graphics are like the last title in the gameboy advance. There isn't much improval 
 then last title.
  
  Sound: Same old sound as the Yoshi's titles. There isn't much improval then last titles in the 
 gameboy advance.
  
  Value: You can play for like 10 hours and then be borded. Like I said, all you have to do in this 
 game is draw some lines so Yoshi can pass to save the baby.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is for the children and I recommend that if you don't have a 
 baby brother then don't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R-Dogg
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2005 5:37 pm PT
Review:  i thought that i had just recived a stupid pre-shcool game wen i opened my present i thought "o 
 no not another crappy mario" but it turned out good. this is a great game if u dont want to be 
 pressing a million buttons at once. its quite simple tho its fun. the graphics are ok. it offers 
 challenges after uv beaten the game so u dont have to throw it away right after. even tho its kinda 
 repetetive u will still play it. the cost is a little to high so u might want to let it drop slightly. 
 the DS itself is too much so if u dont have that then dont buy it for this game or any others. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 11, 2005 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: I was really excited when I first bought this game. Everyone I had talked to had 
 liked it and when I bought it, put it in my DS and played it I thought, yea this isn't to bad, 
 then, I played for a while, and I was like: "Wow, that was boring" and I never played it again.
 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  I gotta give it a break here. The graphics are nice. They're quite cute and very appropriate for 
 the game. The enmies look nice, but Yoshi looks the best. Scenery is nice and gives the game that 
 great Mario feeling to it. Downside? Maybe a little simple...
  
  Gameplay: 2/10
  Originality? Yes. Fun for more than 30mins? No. There are four modes to the game, each different 
 but also similiar to the rest. Some involve you beating the level within a certain time, others 
 rescuing baby Luigi and some just seeing how long you can go without dieing.
  The idea of the game is, Baby Mario has been dropped by the stalk and you must protect him as he 
 falls by drawing clouds with your stylus to guide him down as well as pick up coins along the way. 
 
  Once you get to the bottom Yoshi comes and saves you, adn depending on how well you did the better 
 Yoshi you get. You must down control Yoshi, by firing egges, drawing cluds etc. to keep enemies 
 away from him or just kill them until you reach the end.
  At the end you are given an overall rank on how many points you got and its put on the highscore 
 table.
  
  The game is very easy to win, but next to impossible to get a 1st place on the table. After a while 
 all the modes sort of blend into each other and it becomes boring. And if I EVER have to control 
 Baby Mario falling from the sky again, it will be too soon. There was just no variety in anything 
 to do.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  Yea, this wasn't too bad either. Nice happy Mario music and some good sound effects to acompany 
 attacks and enemies. However, like the game, the music does tend to become a bit boring after a 
 while.
  
  Replay Value:
  Me: 1/10
  Data: 10/10
  This is a funny one to score. I personally would not go back and play the game again because I 
 found it boring. But in the case you actually like it, there is no end! The entire point of the 
 gamr is to keep doing it again and again to get the best score you possibly can, which, in theory, 
 could keep you entertained forever. Thats what the data score was for. But I just found it to similiar 
 to continue playing. So hence, my 1/10 score.
  
  Challenge: 6/10
  This game provides quite a bit of a challenge. The main concept is simple, but to get the highest 
 score is next to impossble and extremely frustrating when all the hard work you put in, gets you 
 not even close to 1st place. So I gave it 6, because it does provide a challenge, but one that 
 for me, was just two frustrating.
  
  Overall:
  Lots of people have very differnt opinions about this game. I was one of the ones who didn't like 
 it very much. I recommend you hire this game first so you can see for yourself, but beware, you 
 may be bored out of your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_devster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 28, 2005 2:37 am PT
Review:  Once upon a time, there was a game called super mario world on super nes back in 1991 which was 
 where a green dinosaur was born. 4 years later there was a sequel to SMW which was subtitled "Yoshi's 
 Island and gamers loved it so, that if it wasn't slightly illegal, they would marry theyre SMWYI 
 cart which would be glued into their SNES. (i'm getting to t&g)
  
  6 Years of bad games later and Yoshi's island was remade on GBA and gamers they did fall in love 
 with it all over again then earlier this year yoshi touch and go came out. and i was hooked. but 
 too many a yoshis island fan mistaked this for a follow up to YI and rated it low and flushed their 
 DS's down the toilet and they did not live happilly ever after.
  
  Seriously, yoshi touch and go is as addictive as coca cola. you will be glugging huge 2 litre bottles 
 of it every second. even while you sleep you'll be dreaming of topping your marathon high score. 
 Now, i won't lie to you but it is the same gameplay over and over but so was tetris and that was 
 popular, heck i even saw someone playing it on the planefrom ibiza a couple of years back and the 
 only other bad thing is targeting can draw platforms if your not carful but that doesnt stop it 
 from being a good game just don't overhype it though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IChangedMyName
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 27, 2005 1:45 am PT
Review:  yoshi touch and go is by far the second most addictive game out on any console. though i was dissapponted 
 as hell when i ripped it open and popped it in so i can get hands on with yoshi, nintendo show 
 us controlling what happens a character is funner then making it happen. yes the game is based 
 on directing yoshi and baby mario safley across 2 areas and 2 different but much alike gameplay 
 modes. i almost gave up b/c i was so pist off at the mony i spent on yoshie when i could of/ should 
 of bought bomberman, but a few hours or so, it made me a fan, the fact is its patheticlly easy, 
 but yet ... challenging?. what i mean by this is its so simple but yet its so complicated i mean 
 what made me get into it was that i couldnt believe how easy it was but i yet my pride was hurt 
 b/c i couldnt do it! so i became so fanaticly addicted that whenni finally got it i was happy i 
 made the decision and the sense i accomplished a mere 5 year olds type of challenge was enough 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTABadBoy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2005 11:43 am PT
Review:  This game started out as a tec demo, now all its still a tec demo but with a few added extras. 
 The best bit in my mind is the baby mario levels, were you have little baby mario falling from 
 the sky and you have to help him oin his way down. You must collect coins using the stylus and 
 kill enimies. Using the stylus you must cirlce the coins and bad guys then send them towards mario 
 to get them. The other level is yoshi with mario on his back and you must guide them throught the 
 level. Its preety much the same as mario levles byt ur on ground now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artistml
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 15, 2005 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Everyone who rated this Above a seven knows darn well its disapointing. trust me nintendos crappin 
 in your mouth on this one. 
  
  GAMEPLAY or LAMEPLAY: come on you butt faces know once you get all the high scores your neva gonna 
 play this sukka again. whats the ultimate prize a balloon popin game, do yourself a favor, buy 
 yourself the original gba game, or just get a life. sorry im 
  
  GRAPHICS or LAPHICS: ITs just polishid gba graphics nothin added, nothing. This is a laphic for 
 sure.
  
  SOUND or POUND: its just remix gba sounds. do yourself a favor and listen to the original gba game. 
 or just listen to your ipod, or cd player, or tapeplayer, or radio, or your voice..... ok maybe 
 not your voice. sorry im gonna have to pound this one.
  
  VAL "U" or SELL "U": ITs just not that fun. no replay value. the hidden baloon popping game can 
 pop itself up someones butt whole. maybe yours haha. I think nintendo was defintly not looking 
 for value. just trying to make a crap game polish it, fart on it with yoshis face, and say hey 
 its yoshi you should buy it. I deffenetly say its a sell "U" for my collection.
  
  TILT or THIS GAME SUCKS A DOGS HAIRY BUTT: Did i really pay for this rip of , of a game. this game 
 definetly sucks a dogs hairy butt, i wont even tilt this sukka. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kev3331
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi Touch and Go is the much anticipated sequel to the stellar Yoshis Island however... it's 
 not. It is in facta showcase for the NDS touch screen, yes, theres a quirky control method involved. Touch 
 and Go actually makes the best use of the touch pad to date with intuitive responsive and unique 
 controls however while the idea is sold there is much of game around it.
  
  Gameplay
  There are two types of levels. Vertical ones in which baby Mario falls through a coin and enemy 
 filled skies and you must guide him safely down to the ground by creating pathways, trapping enemies 
 and collecting various coins. 
  To do so you must simply use the stylus to draw lines of clouds on the screen or circle enemies 
 and coins, thereby encasing them in bubbles which you can guide up to Mario thus collecting points. 
 The second type of level is a side scrolling affair in which Yoshi automatically walks along as 
 you shoot eggs at enemies and coins above as well as bridging gaps with (you guessed it) clouds. 
 
  There's no real story, leavel design or variation but rather na arcade style get the high score, 
 there's a few modes marathon, time attack and Multiplayer. These different modes, while pretty 
 much the same, add varation to the gameplay.
  
  Graphics & Sound:
  The overall look and feel of the game is suitably Yoshi with pastels colours and bright environments 
 that really help solidify the notion that youre playing a Yoshi game. The music follows suit and 
 is most welcome among the overall sugary presentation.
  
  This game is addictive, charming and it's endlessly fun trying to top that high score list to see 
 how long you can last, how many points you can tot up or how quickly you can reach the end. While 
 it does feel a little tech dome-esquemore Touch and Go is simple and this is where its brilliance 
 lies.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Space_Godzillla
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 12, 2005 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi Touch & Go
  The basic concept of Yoshi Touch & Go is to help baby mario and yoshi make their way safely through 
 the game. The game really relies on the touch screen for most of its basic gameplay and well uses 
 the touch screen actually quite well. The gameplay starts out with Baby mario floating down from 
 the sky on three balloons. You can use the stylus to use clouds as guidelines for baby mario. You 
 will also find many obstacles in your way such as shy guys, spiked enemies, little gusts. You can 
 also use the touch screen to make circles around enemies and entrap them into balloons turning 
 them into coins. You can also entrap coins into balloons and use the stylus to drag the balloons 
 to the top screen where baby mario falls. If mario gets hit three times the game will be over. 
 After a certain amount of time baby mario will hit land and be caught by yoshi. Yoshi will then 
 automatically be walking kinda like a side scrolling adventure. You will also have to be on the 
 look out for obstacles and enemies. You can use the stylus for everything in this part of the level 
 like you could with the baby mario part of the level. You will also have to use clouds as a ground 
 to prevent yoshi from pitfalls. Another feature allows you to blow into the mic of the Nintendo 
 DS to blow away any unwanted clouds.
  
  
  
  (Top) Baby Mario's level.
  
  (Bottom) Yoshi's level.
  
  
  
  The graphics seem to be fitting for a yoshi island game 
 and the same story goes for this game. Its graphics are really nice looking in 2D and the enviroments 
 look pretty nice. The basic color pencil drawn backgrounds are pretty cool as they change from 
 day to night or vice-versa. From the clouds to the trees to even mario and yoshi themsleves look 
 really nice just not mind blowing since there isn't much 3D in the game.
  
  
  
  Yoshi Touch & Go for the Nintendo DS (top) Yoshi's Island for the Nintendo Gameboy Advance (bottom) . 
 As you can see the graphical differences.
  
  
  
  Story is pretty much absent in the game so there isn't really a story mode that many of us were 
 expecting. I was kinda dissappointed when I found this out but the game just draws you in so much 
 that it keeps you coming back for more. It can get really addictive many instances but there are 
 also faults in the game. There are six modes of play which are quite basic. There is a score attack 
 which has baby mario fall through the sky and you using the stylus to help him gather as many coins 
 as possible to gain the higher score as it continues on with the yoshi level. Same goes for time 
 attack which is unlocked after getting the highest score in score attack. Marathon mode is pretty 
 much the main mode in the game. It is basically the same with you guideing baby mario and him traveling 
 with yoshi. The thing with this mode is that after you reach your main point you hand baby mario 
 off to the next colored yoshi after the next 1000 miles. Also scoring highest in this mode gives 
 you access to challenge mode which is again pretty much the same with some added obstacles in your 
 way. 
  
  Flaws are definetly present in the game as said before. One can be that the difficulty can be really 
 challenging as you try to guide baby mario or even yoshi. Things can get hectic many moments and 
 one touch of an enemy will have you either having to start back from a midpoint which is right 
 when yoshi catches baby mario and begins his side-scrolling adventure or just restart which will 
 take you back to the beginning when mario is falling through the sky.
  
  Sound is actually what you would expect from a Yoshi game. Pretty much similiar tunes from Yoshi's 
 Island. The sound affects are nice though and probably make you like it or hate it. Its all about 
 you.
  
  The Multiplayer can be played by using one or two games packs. its a race to the finish as the 
 other player trys eliminate more enemies makeing more appear on your screen.
  
  
  
  Overall the story book like graphics, addictive yet challenging gameplay can keep you coming time 
 after time but might get repetitive for you and the lack of story can lower the replay value for 
 you and there are better choices out there than this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightmas
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 5, 2005 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Another great game for the DS...
  
  Gameplay-Your trying to get Yoshi can get to the end, like Yoshis Island, but in this, you draw 
 paths for Yoshi to the end. Also you can circle enemys for coins and poke somewere on the screen 
 to throw the egg. But in the beginning of each mode (Score/endless/time/panic) you draw clouds 
 to bring baby Mario safely down to the ground.
  
  Graphics-Just like the SNES Grapics, they are good and smooth.
  
  Sound-is amazing, They slightly 
 changed the original Yoshis Island and put it in the games. Put your head phones on.
  
  Final notes- Yoshis Touch and Go will not appeal for others, but if you want a break of the shooters 
 and Fighting games, Yoshis T&G is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheesebob57
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2005 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Last year at the Electronic Entertainment Expo in May, the Nintendo DS was unveiled where multiple 
 tech demos were playable on the show floor, each one showcasing the DSs unique capabilities. Now, 
 almost one year later, one tech demo known as Baby Mario, has been released as a full game with 
 new twists and turns.
  
  The games story according to its instruction manual goes like:
  A lone stork flies hastily through the darkened pre-dawn skies. Held firmly in its beak is a very 
 special package: a pair of newborn twins, which the stork is hurrying to deliver to their parents! 
 Just as the stork races through the skies over Yoshis Island, something terrible happens! A dark 
 shadow rushes toward the stork with tremendous speed and crashes into it! The startled stork drops 
 the twin babies...
  
  And so it is your job to save Baby Mario from plummeting to his death. The core of the game has 
 Baby Mario drifting slowly down to the ground being supported by three balloons which pop out of 
 nowhere. Apparently, Baby Mario keeps spare balloons in his diaper just in case of an emergency. 
 As Baby Mario falls, you draw clouds on the bottom screen to direct Mario away from enemies (like 
 Shy Guys or spikes) and toward coins or stars (although stars are only available in later levels 
 or the two other different unlockable modes) . Stars add a good twist to the game: when you get 
 one, you move much faster and turn invincible for a brief period of time so it is much easier to 
 rack up the points. In order to defeat certain enemies, you must draw a circle around the enemy 
 and then throw the balloon to Baby Mario. Once Mario reaches the bottom of the stage, you get on 
 a yoshi and continue on horizontally doing almost the same thing you just did when Baby Mario was 
 falling accept this time youre on a yoshi and you can fire eggs. The amount of eggs you can carry 
 depends on you previous score on the falling stage. If you had received a high score on the falling 
 stage, your yoshi will carry many eggs and travel very fast along the stage.
  
  There are four total modes that are available to you in Yoshi Touch & Go, but only two available 
 to you at the start. You have Score Attack mode, which is basically one falling and one yoshi stage 
 and you try to get the best score. Also available from the beginning is Marathon mode, which consists 
 as one falling stage and a never ending yoshi stage. There are two unlockable modes, time attack 
 and challenge mode. Time attack is one falling stage and one yoshi stage where you try to get to 
 the end as fast as you can. At the end of the yoshi stage of Time attack mode, you face four flying 
 opponents surrounding baby Luigi. You must defeat the four opponents to rescue Luigi, and you can 
 only stop the timer when you rescue him. Challenge mode is basically a challenging Marathon mode.
 
  
  The graphics in Yoshi Touch & Go are cute and cartoony, and are similar to those of Yoshis Island. 
 But when youre playing Yoshi Touch & Go, dont let anybody see you, because for one, they might 
 see the name of the game. Yoshi Touch & Go. You know what I mean. And two, they cartoony graphics 
 may look cool for you, but not to somebody who only plays games if they look cool (you know the 
 type) . So, in all, Yoshi Touch & Go looks great for some, but not for all.
  
  I love how the controls work for Yoshi Touch & Go. Just touch where you want to draw clouds, bubbles, 
 or throw eggs. The game works for people who are right or left handed perfectly. So, like Nintendos 
 ad campaign, Touching IS Good.
  
  The music in Yoshi Touch & Go is basically a nursery-type of music. It isnt annoying for me, but 
 maybe for others. I actually found myself sometimes while playing the game listening to a CD player.
 
  
  There really isnt much replay value in Yoshi Touch & Go. Basically, you keep playing the game 
 until you unlock the two unlockable modes. My friend only wanted to play the game for after five 
 minutes. I, on the other hand, am still playing it after hours and hours of play. Yoshi Touch & 
 Go isnt addictive, its just average.
  
  There is a multiplayer mode in Yoshi Touch & Go. The game features single game play, which is good 
 because chances are, your friend doesnt own this game. To be quite honest, the multiplayer sucks. 
 It consists of a yoshi stage where you race to the finish. There is almost no strategy to it. Chances 
 are, you will play it once and never want to play it again.
  
  I had loads of fun playing Yoshi Touch & Go. Unfortunately, it has some major flaws, but that is 
 kind of what I would expect playing a remake of an E3 tech demo.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: timo710
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 17, 2005 6:55 pm PT
Review:  It ain't What the revieuws told me , I red it in magazines and watched the video revieuw, 
  WHO TOLD ME THERE WHERE NO STAGES , JUST MODES.
  RANDOM GENERATED LEVELS , yeah right , I wanted 
 yoshi to travel like he did in yoshi's island but no I got this stupid 4 mode game.
  Okay It's not that bad If you play it one or 2 times A week but's thats not how you want a game 
 to be , It didn; t do what I was expecting, yoshi : traveling mountain's and doin stuff , yknow 
 not a 30 egg yoshi who has to walk to the end of the stage and will tell you to restart the stage 
 for a higher high score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 9, 2005 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Back at E3 2004, Nintendo had a tech demo on display in their Nintendo DS booth called "Balloon 
 trip". This game was an intriguing concept that many thought would make a great full-length game. 
 Too bad Nintendo didn't listen to them when they decided to put the actual tech-demo on a game 
 card and sell it for thirty bucks. Yoshi's Touch & Go is not a full-length game. It is still the 
 same tech-demo with some minor tweaks. The game lasts you 10 minutes tops, and you're done with 
 it, but something about it has kept me playing it periodically over the past few months I've had 
 it. The multiplayer is also very fun, and I come back to that a lot as well. In fact, I'd go as 
 far as to say this game is the game I've played the most over the past five months. It's just a 
 two-minute-long TECH DEMO!! Why am I so entertained? I mean... I can't explain why I just keep playing 
 it and playing it and playing it.
  
  So I guess Yoshi's Touch & Go, for some people more than others, has a certain amount of replayabililty 
 unlike no other I've seen since Tetris for the original Game Boy. I keep playing Marathon mode 
 to beat my score over and over, and I can't bring myself to sell it.
  
  I'm not guaranteeing that anyone who buys Yoshi's Touch & Go will play it periodically like I do, 
 and if you don't know anybody else with a DS, you're screwed in the multiplayer aspect. If you 
 like games that last two minutes that you can play in sessions for either 2 seconds or an hour 
 at a time, this game might be worth an ebay purchase, but otherwise, I don't really recommend it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wapahala
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 1, 2006 4:25 am PT
Review:  When you look at the game, It look's like a kiddy game, really easy and no game for an adult. Well, 
 whoever says or thinks that - is wrong! This game's main characters are Yoshi, baby Mario and baby 
 Luigi. When you start playing it, it takes a while to get used to the touch-screen use.
  
  Gameplay: There is no way of stopping the yoshi while you're playing, so you have to think fast! 
 You have to make sure that Yoshi and baby Mario don't fall through a hole or get killed by the 
 bad-guys. When you touch the screen, clouds appear and Yoshi can walk on them, but when you click 
 the screen you shoot eggs. Yoshi does not have unlimited eggs so he has to eat fruit to get eggs. 
 You have to remember that you only have one life, so be careful. You can destroy the bad-guys by 
 either shooting them with eggs or draw circles around them, witch will turn them into coins and 
 be placed in a bubble. If the bubble is too far away to catch, you can drag it to you and you will 
 receive the coins and contents that are in it. It takes a while to get used to. The gameplay is 
 really great. Great use of the touch-screen.
  
  Graphics: The games' graphics aren't anything huge. It's all 2d, but very, very clear. Looks gorgeous 
 on the DS.
  
  Sound: The sound is really nice, but isn't the greatest sound the DS is capible of.
  
  The 
 game is really good, really fun, but really hard :P The worst thing about this game is that it 
 is really short. I't only takes about 1 hour (or more) to finish it.
  
  Simon Pavelich
  (aka Wapahala)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonic_Jin
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi Touch &amp; Go started out as a tech demo to show off the unique functions and capabilities 
 of the Nintendo DS, but Nintendo decided to make it into a full game, for full price. Thats there 
 first mistake because Yoshi Touch &amp; Go does feature unique and innovative gameplay but the 
 problem is that there isn't a lot to back it up.
  
  The gameplay is both unique and innovative. Basically there are two types of levels, vertical and 
 horizontal. In the verticle you have to guide Baby Mario down to the ground safely by drawing fluffy 
 clouds that let him collect as much coins as possible and avoid enemy's. Fortunately there is a 
 way to attack the enemy's, you can also draw circular clouds around them and if you do it in the 
 right size the enemy will turn into a big ball with a coin or 2 in it (you will get a different 
 amount of coins depending on what type of enemy it is. In the horizontal levels you control Yoshi, 
 guiding him over gaps using the clouds to prevent him from falling, using his jumps to get more 
 coins and using his eggs to attack enemy's. However Yoshi dosn't have unlimited eggs, you will 
 have to find different types of fruits to replenish his eggs. There are various types of fruits 
 such as banana's, watermelons and grapes (theres a few more as well) .
  
  There are also 4 different gameplay modes for you to play in. Score Attack, where you have to try 
 and get the highest score in the given two levels, Marathon which is one verticle level and then 
 a never ending horizontal level where you have to travel the highest amount of yards as possible 
 before either getting hit by an enemy or falling down through a gap. The other two you will have 
 to unlock by getting the highest score in both of the modes above (marathon and score attack) . 
 Yoshi Touch &amp; Go is surprisingly hard. In the verticle levels if you get touched by an enemy 
 just once you will collapse and then you will be given the option to either start on the horizontal 
 level again or start all over again on the verticle level which can be frustrating at times. In 
 the verticle level Baby Mario has 3 balloons on his back, each balloon symbolizes a life, if all 
 three are popped you will have to start all over again. Yoshi Touch &amp; Go is definitely not 
 a game that you can just pick up and play and be instantly good at.
  
  One of the highlights of Yoshi Touch &amp; Go is the graphics which are very well done. Pretty 
 much everything is done with equal detail. The backgrounds are all well done, the enemy's are just 
 as detailed as Yoshi himself and Baby Mario. Even the eggs that Yoshi launches out are surrounded 
 with a super sonic wave. The sound is also done very well, all the voice acting (there isn't much 
 but anyway) is good, and the soundtrack while nothing special matches the gameplay quite well.
 
  
  The thing about Yoshi Touch &amp; Go is that you can finish it in about 4 or 5 hours. It may be 
 hard but in 5 hours you should be able to get the high score in all the modes, and thats pretty 
 much all you do, you get the high score and try to beat your score over and over again, unless 
 of coarse you know a friend that has a DS along with Yoshi Touch &amp; Go you can play multiplayer 
 which is pretty fun.
  
  When it comes right down to it, Yoshi Touch &amp; Go is a fun game, but there isn't enough lastability. 
 After you've seen what the game has to offer you will get a little bored with it, and after about 
 10 hours of gameplay (if that) you probably won't come back that much anymore. But if you do have 
 a DS, you should consider trying the game out, but just don't expect it to last too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marco_basaglia
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 10, 2005 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi's Touch is a crazy and inovative game. The game revolves around baby Mario, and youre primary 
 objective is to get him out of touble and into safety.
  
  The levels are split up into two sections. Both in the sky and and on the ground missions. The 
 sky missions requires you to guide Baby Mario out of trouble by drawing clouds with the stylus. 
 You can encirle enimies and turn them into balloons, adding more points to youre score.
  
  The ground missions are based more on yoshi. It's played from left to right, with Yoshi on the 
 bottom screen. You basicly do the same job whoch you do on the sky mission, exept this time you 
 can through eggs at enimies. While youre both in the air on ground, you can blow on the NDS's built 
 in microphone to get rid of the unnessary clouds youve drawn. It's realy neat!
  
  The game has several modes to play through, and all of them are pretty fun, allthough they do lack 
 in level design. Youll have to earn both time attack and challenge mode so that gives a much greater 
 lifespan. 
  
  Graphicly speaking, the game isnt all A*. The game looks more like a GBA game rather that a NDS 
 game, but graohcs arnt everything..... It's gameplay, and this is where the gam gets an A*. 
  
  Sound wise the game is great! Great soundtrack and great sound effects!! This truly is for 
 the hardcore gamer. Classic theme tunes that youll remember straight away.
  
  Ok, now Lifespan. Ive been playin the game non-stop since i got it a few days ago, and ive unlocked 
 all of the modes. If your realy into getting the best and most impressive score, well than this 
 is the game for you. The game is challenging at some stages, and isnt a good choise for younger 
 children. It's just too challenging for them!! 
  The cons are deffenately the levels. The game gives that exact same levels with slight variations 
 on each of the modes. 
  
  All in all Yoshis Touch and go inst a spectacular game, but sure is damn fun and inovative, which 
 to me, is what gaming is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetravman
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2005 2:59 am PT
Review:  This game sure feels like playing Metroid Prime Hunters: First Hunt, its fun, but doesnt last very 
 long. There are only two game modes in the start, and only two more modes to unlock. Thats all 
 there is to it. But this game may seem a little kidish with its cute graphics, but aside that, 
 this game is pretty difficult if trying to get the high score. I lose alot of times at the first 
 part of the levels when baby mario falls from the sky, floating from balloons, and u have to guide 
 him down to the ground safely by drawing clouds, and avoiding enemies. 3 hits, and its gameover.
 
  
  After baby mario gets to the ground, yoshi catches him, and chases the bird that was carrying him 
 in the beginning. It's ur job to clear yoshi's path, and avoid any obsicles but throwing eggs, 
 drawing clouds, or turn monsters into coins. If u make a small circle around an enemy, it will 
 turn to a coin, and u can drag it to yoshi. U make clouds to walk over any drops, or block enemies 
 paths. If u find the clouds completely useless, u can simply blow on the screen and viola, it's 
 gone. Throwing eggs is a useful technique. It can knock off any objects in the sky, collect coins, 
 and shoot the baddies. There are spots that seem impossible to get the coins, but dont forget that 
 eggs can bounce off walls. This trick can get coins where yoshi himself cant. If u tap yoshi mulitple 
 of times, he will float in the air, longer he'll stay in the air depends how many times u tap on 
 him.
  
  I sure enjoyed this game for about 5 hours of gameplay. I recommend this game as a rental instead, 
 because u can just beat it in 1-3 hours. It does have replay value anyway. Try to get the highest 
 score that make it impossible for anyone to reach this rank. This is a must try for any one, but 
 not a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjgamer
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 4, 2005 5:09 am PT
Review:  This game should be the first pick-up for your DS! This game is simple and easy to learn, and takes 
 the game to an interesting level with the gameplay aspects! With a fun and simple control style, 
 this is really good for getting used to the DS touch screen control.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, nicely rendered 3D graphics on a 2D plane. This isn't the best 3D, 
 but it's from the Yoshi's Island graphic area. They do an excellent job giving you the feel to 
 Yoshi's Island, from Yoshi and Baby Mario to the backrounds themselves. The graphics are very clean, 
 and won't bother you during gameplay at all.
  
  The control style is very easy to get used to, and alot of fun. When you start up and never played 
 a DS game, this game will be difficult. When you start up and system be sure to check out the demo 
 in the bottom corner. The challenge will always be there, because most of the time it can be hard 
 to go through the Baby Mario level, but this is where the addictivity comes from.
  
  This game is very addicting. It gives you the, "One more try, I can do it this time!" You won't 
 stop playing, and you'll be tempted to getting on the high scores and unlocking the challenge and 
 time attack mode.
  
  The modes are very simple, and featured in most racing games and other games. This platformer is 
 actually very good for being a platform racer! Especially in vs. mode! The score attack mode is 
 very simple, cover 2000 yards and try to get as many points as possible, this isn't the best mode, 
 because it ends to quickly, and only had one level. Marathon is probably the best mode. An endless 
 mode where you try to survive as long as you can, it's challenging and has alot of different levels, 
 it makes it seem like you're traveling the whole island from caves to wide open meadows. The time 
 attack mode is alot of fun, and tempts you to go as fast as you can to rescue baby luigi, this 
 is like score attack mode, except alot better. This is fast and furious, giving you yellow clouds 
 that make yoshi run on them, which is also in vs. mode. The challenge is in front of your face, 
 giving you tough enemies and big blockades, then rescuing Baby Luigi is the egg throwing craziness 
 as you beat the kamies like a drummer would a drum, avoiding enemies and collecting eggs. Finally 
 challenge mode, it's up to you how much time you have, the more enemes you beat, the more time 
 you're given. This is also endless, and gives you constant blockades and air maneuver, this is 
 challenging, because getting through 1000 yards with no brakes and no yoshi power ups, is quite 
 difficult, run out of eggs, your dead.
  
  This game overall is really a must have for the DS. With a simple control scheme, nice graphics, 
 and fun, simple, and addictive gameplay, this is a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilinla
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Many DS owners have wondered why, out of the handful of games that have been released, all are 
 gimmicky or not complete. Unfortunately, for those awaiting a full-blown adventure, Nintendo has 
 released a title that does not offer much in terms of story or in-game progression. What Nintendo 
 does offer, is a fun and entertaining game that is sure to please anyone who does not expect to 
 be blown away by story, but enjoys breaking records and just plain fun.
  
  Gameplay: What Yoshi Touch and Go does best. There is basically only one level in the whole game, 
 although it does vary a little every time you play. This one level is divided into two parts a 
 vertical scrolling level and a side scrolling level.
  
  The vertical level begins as Baby Mario is pummeling down to his doom. You must draw lines on the 
 bottom screen to change the direction in which the baby falls. You must try to get the most coins, 
 and avoid enemies at the same time, which can become a very tricky, yet enjoyable process. The 
 more coins you get, the better Yoshi you get once you reach the end of the vertical scrolling level.
 
  
  The side scrolling part is my personal favorite. With the stylus, you can draw lines on the screen 
 to change the direction in which the baby Mario-carrying Yoshi moves. You can also throw eggs in 
 the direction that you touch the screens. However, you cannot throw as many eggs as you can, as 
 there is a limit. The more coins you get in the side scrolling level, the more eggs you will be 
 able to carry in the side scrolling part. You can also draw a circle around enemies to turn them 
 into coins.
  
  Graphics: colorful and cute, what else would you expect?
  
  Sound: decent, although there are just a few voices from Yoshi or the babies. The background noises 
 are specially good when using earphones, and surprisingly enough, it never gets repetitive.
  
  Different modes: there are a few different modes in the game, although you will find yourself 
 playing Marathon mode most of your time. There is a time attack mode, where you try to get the 
 most points over a certain amount of yards. In marathon mode, you simply try to get the farthest 
 you can, until you die. There are other unlockable modes, one where you must rescue baby Luigi 
 on the smallest amount of time possible, and another where you must once again try to get the most 
 amounts of points. But, as said before, you will find yourself playing Marathon Mode.
  
  The game does include, however, a two player mode that is highly addictive. It's simplicity is 
 essentially what makes it so addictive. Basically you guide Yoshi in the side scrolling level and 
 as you make combos, by hitting multiple enemies with the same egg, you will make some rather dangerous 
 spikes appear on your enemie's path. 
  
  Overall: Overall, this game deserves to be in anyone's library of DS games, as it proves that a 
 gimmick can be very fun and addictive. The only thing that hurts this title is the lack of level 
 progression, little replay value, and utter simplicity that makes this a love-it or hate-it title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memasterofvg
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 1, 2005 3:20 am PT
Review:  Starting its life as a tech demo, Yoshi Touch and Go was always a favorite showcase for the new 
 Nintendo DS handheld. Evolving from its roots to a full-fledged game, its way is a graceful one. 
 Everything about Yoshi Touch and Go sings perfection: the tight controls, original graphics, and 
 just overall fun gameplay.
  
  Ypshi Touch and Go is basically a hardcore get the highest recond huge minigame persisting over 
 two challenges: Baby Mario falling down, a vertical game, and Yoshi to the rescue, which is a horizantal 
 platformer type game.
  
  Baby Mario falling down isn't quite as fun as the horizanal level, but in itself progresses over 
 many games out now for any console. Within it, you are to draw clouds from a falling Baby Mario 
 to collect coins, lead down to a path, etc. You must also avoid any enemies flying around. To destroy 
 or blow away all of the clouds that you have previosly made, just blow into the microphone hole. 
 This is a very elegant way to solve that hazard. Clouds can also effectively keep all enemies away. 
 
  
  The horizantal Yoshi to the rescue game is more involving, since you have many other commands at 
 your disposal. This time, with the help of Yoshi, you will destroy any enemies in your path and 
 guide them with clouds, again, and you can still blow them away. This time though, you have an 
 attack command. You are able to shoot all enemies and coins with an egg by tapping the touch screen. 
 You are allowed to hold a maximum of 20 eggs, trailing behind your back, and you can refill your 
 arsenal with an assortment of fruits. The other new command is jumping, which you can perform by 
 tapping Yoshi. You can then tap Yoshi as many times as you want in the air to keep him flying. 
 These new moves keep the game interesting.
  
  The horizantal levels, though, are a lot tougher than the vertical one. In the vertical ones, you 
 are held with three lives, or balloons that keep Baby Mario afloat, while you die with one hit 
 in the horizantal levels, which gives you complete reason to hit every single thing in your path.
 
  
  There are 5 basic modes, but I'll only explain the 3 main ones, unlocked from the start. Score 
 challenge lets you compete for the highest score you can get by destroying enemies and collecting 
 coins. The key to this is to encircle everything in your way, and then take the bubble it forms 
 and pop it over Yoshi. The next mode is Marathon, where you try to get the farthest without dying. In 
 this, you just try to encircle or kill everything in your path. And then there's versus mode, which 
 lets you compete against a friend.
  
  As I said before, they extremely fun and novel, so don't expect to ever, ever play a game the same 
 as Yoshi Touch and Go. It has a complete vibe that is seldom contained in a video game, and also, 
 you really can't handle something like this on a PS2, or any console, for that matter.
  
  To make the vibe work, you need equally as good graphics and sound to accompany the core gameplay. 
 This game does a fine job of that. All of the visuals are all very colorful, very offbeat, and 
 very optimistic. The sprites are well done as well. Unfortunately, this game is by no means cutting 
 edge, putting much focus on artistic strength. It's good that the game does a damn good job of 
 that.
  
  The sound is no slouch either. It is an array of interesting, well directed sounds, supported by 
 dazzling surround sound stereo DS speakers. Superb.
  
  There is no doubting that this game is superb. It masterfully captures the adictiveness of arcade 
 games, while providing an involving game. If you have a DS, and you're choosing a game, this should 
 no doubt by atop your list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lild1425
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 29, 2005 7:07 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed when beginning to play the game was that there was no story. No clip 
 or anything just for different modes to play: Score Attack, Marathon, Time Attack, and Challenge.
 
  
  Score Attack: Obviously you try to obtain the highest point score as you can.
  
  Marathon: You try to go as far as you can before you die.
  
  Time Attack: Rescue Baby Mario 
 from the shy guys who are holding him captive and you must knock them down from the sky while traveling 
 on the ground.
  
  Challenge: Like marathon you must try and get as far as possible except this you are given 60 seconds 
 and you regain seconds by knocking down enemies with shells. There are two portions to the game, 
 an air portion where Baby Mario is falling and a ground part where Baby Mario is riding Yoshi. 
 During the galling portion you draw clouds to lead Baby Mario down by collecting coins. You may 
 also draw circles around enemies and coins and throw them at Baby Mario as it is the same with 
 the ground portion. Depending on the score you achieve in the air, you will receive a different 
 color Yoshi. The higher the score, the higher the number of eggs your Yoshi can carry. For instance, 
 blue Yoshis may carry 40 eggs if you receive 100-124 points as opposed to a green Yoshi that carries 
 25 eggs if you receive 25 points or less on the air portion. On the ground you can shoot the eggs 
 and kill the enemies. To refill your eggs you must eat the fruit that are lying within the levels 
 of the ground portion. One frustrating area us that once Yoshi is hit he dies and you must restart 
 over although it is a strong point that the game allows you to restart from the ground version 
 instead of having to go all the way back to the air portion again. The one hit death can be irritating 
 especially if you are at the 2800 yard mark in Marathon and only need 200 yards to complete Marathon 
 mode (totaling 300 yards in Marathon, the highest score) . You receive nothing when completing any 
 of the four modes not unlocking anything. The game seems to only thrive on replay value and the 
 fun factor. I regret to inform you that I have not been able to try the online yet because I dont 
 have any friends with the DS, so I am unable to experiment with it. If you purchase the game and 
 dont know how to play it, dont fear because they give you a demo on how to play both the ground 
 and air portions. I give Yoshis Touch and Go a 7.4 because of the lack of levels, which there 
 are four types and each with a different type of ground and air portion. It also, like I mentioned 
 before, has a lack of story. What the game really is, is the demo from last years E3. It seems 
 Nintendo put the demo of Yoshis Balloon Trip in a box, changed the name, and sold it to the consumer. 
 The game does have a replay value and it is very fun while it lasts.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny Burgess
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 29, 2005 8:21 am PT
Review:  I had fun with Yoshi Touch & Go for about 1.5hrs until I started doing the same levels over and 
 over. I'm one that does NOT like doing the same stuff over more than once not matter how innovative 
 it is. The multiplayer doesn't add anything new either. This game felt more like a fleshed out 
 demo than a real game. If you're a fan of classic arcade gaming where going for the top score was 
 all there was to hope for, I guess it could be enjoyable. 
  
  The sound effects work pretty well with the game, but the graphics are quite terrible for what 
 should be expected of a DS game. I can easily see graphics like this being done on the GBA.
  
  3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20257018376039478582138518186741-curiosgeorge885
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 25, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi Touch and Go is a new DS game from nintendo. It started out as a tech demo for the DS, and 
 then nintendo thought that it would be acceptable to make a game out of it. So alas, here is Yoshi's 
 touch and go. It is a decent DS game if you're starving for a new one, but there aren't many DS 
 games on the market right now anyway, which is the only reason why this game is decent, not mediocre.
 
  
  The game's single player is an extremely simplistic, straightforward, storyless campaign which 
 is spread out into 2 levels: One where you try to guide baby mario down while he floats through 
 the sky (which takes about 2 minutes) and then the "main" one where you play as Yoshi trying to 
 guide baby mario somewhere, or something (I don't really know) . The fact of the matter is, the 
 so-called "story" in this game is just a confusing mishap basically, and you're better off not 
 trying to find out what it means. This pretty much makes the whole game mindless.
  
  In the baby mario level, like I said before, you guide him through the perils of the sky with your 
 stylus, making clouds to capture coins and murder foes. This is pretty fun for the first few times, 
 but it gets very boring after a while. So luckily, once you hit the ground onto Yoshi's back, and 
 once you die, you can start off on Yoshi's back again.
  
  The Yoshi level consists of you pointing your stylus at enemies to hit them with an egg. You tap 
 yoshi to jump, you also make clouds, and... that's pretty much it. This part of the game gets tough 
 after traveling 1000 yards or so into the level. It also gets repetitive, because each time you 
 go into the level after dieing, it's always the same setup of coins, and same enemies at the same 
 places. 
  
  In my opinion, the score attack mode is the best one, because it's very tense and manic. In this 
 mode you have to collect the most coins before the end of the level. This mode is still repetitive 
 like the other mode, but in some respects, can be fun and addictive.
  
  The fact that there are only 2 levels in the campaign (if you want to call it that) and that there 
 is only the score attack and the sub-par multiplayer mode really dent the game's value... or more 
 like completely destroy it. This gets old fast, but there is some replay value. The only reason 
 really to keep playing the game after a couple of hours is to unlock a lackluster "challenge mode". 
 
  
  This game is, in most respects, is mediocre to good, but the fact that this is the one of the only 
 games available that uses all of the DS' features is pretty cool. But still, that really doesn't 
 improve the game's fair gameplay.
  
  As for the graphics and the sound, these are the best part of the game. The sound is pretty good, 
 but the music can get repetitive in an hour or so. Despite this, itfits the colorful mood of the 
 game, perfectly. The graphics are bright and cheery, and give you a very "Yoshi's Island" feel. 
 They are quality and good in all respects.
  
  All in all, this game leaves much to be desired. But it is decent, because of the lacking game 
 market for DS today. But if there were much more games for the DS now, this would be one of the 
 passable games, and should have stayed a tech demo. I definitely don't recommend buying this, but 
 this is a good rental if you're starving for a new DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 23, 2005 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi's Touch & Go is a game with little story to it, Kamek knocks Baby Mario (and Luigi) away 
 from the stork and Yoshi has to catch him. As he decends, you must draw clouds to move mario about 
 until he falls onto yoshi. From there, it auto scrolls while you keep yoshi from falling down pits, 
 collecting coins, and beatig up the baddies that appear.
  
  Graphics- 9 - As far as2D graphics go, they are superb. The colors are brilliant, well drawn, and 
 flow nicely without any lag
  
  Sound- 6 - There is just some calm mood music really, nothing too great, but everything has its 
 little sound effect (and no crying from Baby Mario is a PLUS)
  
  Gameplay- 10 - This game has 4 modes single player modes, a multiplayer mode that can be sent to 
 other people that dont have the card in their DS, and even a mini game that is an easter egg. The 
 four mades have their own unique style, but are just fun arcade games that can keep you occupied 
 for hours (marathon made keeps me going for hours)
  
  Replay- 10 - Since the game is an arcade mode that can yeild different Yoshis that change difficulty, 
 due to results from the Mario fall, and the randomness of some levels, this game will keep you 
 coming back
  
  Value- 9 - Best tech demo made into full game, IMO. Just pure fun
  
  Overall- 9 - This game is simple, but at the same time addicting and at times, quite challenging. 
 My only warning is that if you don't like arcade like games and like long stories and such avoid 
 this game. If not though, it will be money well spent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2005 1:13 am PT
Review:  
  
  
  
  In a day where graphic ability is usually the key to a games success, rather than its overall game 
 playability, Nintendo brings us Yoshi Touch N Go, a tribute to old school gaming that lives up 
 to all the hype around it and then some. 
  
  Yoshi: Touch N Go is another game in the Nintendo DS library that takes full advantage of the DSs 
 capabilities. Players have to draw clouds to help guide baby Mario from the air to ground after 
 he falls from the grip of a stork. After landing on the back of Yoshi, you have to guide baby Mario 
 back to the stork by making your way through enemy filled environments. This is done by encircling 
 enemies by drawing clouds around them using the touch screen. Enemies that cant be reached on 
 the bottom screen can be eliminated by throwing eggs by tapping Yoshi via the touch screen.
  
  After playing this game for a while, its obvious to see the creators of this game have been 
 influenced heavily by games the likes of the NES versions of Mario Bros, Donkey Kong and Ice Climber. 
 At first glance, the game seems to not have many game play options, but after a few tries you find 
 yourself addicted. Not many games out right now have such a rock solid gameplay interface and are 
 so fun to play.
  
  What makes Yoshi: Touch n Go so addictive is the control. Simply put, the control is perfect. No 
 current game on the Nintendo DS uses the stylus the way Touch n Go does. The control immerses the 
 gamer into the game in ways that just arent seen very often. Despite the fact that you never have 
 any sort of direct control over any characters in the game, controlling the environment around 
 Yoshi and Mario provides a new and fun way of playing that has never been done before.
  
  The graphics of Yoshi Touch n Go are nothing to scream about, but considering how great the game 
 plays, the graphics really dont need to be anything special. The visuals are brightly colored 
 and are a throwback to the days on the Super Nintendo. Any gamer looking for a blast from the past 
 visually will get that and then some from Yoshi Touch n Go.
  
  Any gamer looking for a great game for the DS needs to look no further. While Yoshi Touch n Go 
 never takes itself tremendously seriously, its overall charm and fun-factor are more than enough 
 to keep any gamer busy for any prolonged period of time.
  
  Overall Rating- 8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnmoreland
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 12, 2005 7:12 pm PT
Review:  If you thinks this is like Yoshi's Island DS, THINK AGAIN! I learned that the hard way. Although 
 the style is similar, it seems like this is just four mini-games for 30 dollars.
  It's VERY short. About 2 mins on the score mode, and however long you can survive on marathon. 
 Challenge mode and Time attack are the same. Oh, and one hit and your dead. You have barley control 
 over yoshi. You can make him jump and throw eggs; Other than that you just draw clouds and guide 
 yoshi as long as you can. It's fun for a while, but can get old. Considering the object of the 
 game is to get high scores, I'm not going to recommend you get this game unless your a diehard 
 yoshi/baby mario fan. It's just not worth the money; save it and get Super Mario 64 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer-peGa
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 9, 2005 12:26 am PT
Review:  As of late, I've been getting frustrated as a DS owner. Nintendo sure is taking their sweet time 
 releasing titles for the handheld, and this is especially true for outstanding games. When I first 
 heard that Yoshi's Touch & Go was going to make an appearance on the DS in March, I got totally 
 psyched. I've enjoyed all of the Nintendo titles starring Yoshi. One thing that's been so hurtful 
 about the DS games that have been released is that they haven't taken full advantage of the touch 
 screen, one thing that seems like a necessity. However, Yoshi's T&G is an absolute gem.
  
  The basic outline of the story is reasonably alike to what you'd find in Yoshi's Island. The stork 
 is on his way to deliver the Mario Brothers to his parents when a dark figure collides with the 
 stork, sending Mario towards the ground. Yoshi again comes to the rescue, and helps Mario on his 
 way to returning him to the stork. The story unfolds with two gameplay modes initially available, 
 and two can be unlocked.
  
  Easily the finest and most unique part of the game, Yoshi's T&G utilizes some of the most original 
 gameplay for any game, on any handheld. All, yes, all of your controls are made with the stylus. 
 You never have to touch the control pad or other buttons during the game. The game consists of 
 two different types of levels; there are air levels and ground levels. In the air levels, Baby 
 Mario falls freely to the ground. Your job is to guide Baby Mario using the stylus so he can meet 
 Yoshi at the ground. As you fall, Mario passes various types of coins and enemies. The ground levels 
 are basically the same; only Yoshi gives Baby Mario a ride on the horizontal side of the Mushroom 
 Kingdom.
  
  By utilizing the touch screen, you have an assortment of options to gather coins and defeat enemies. 
 You can draw clouds that guide Baby Mario as he falls to the ground. They also help shield you 
 from enemies. By enclosing an enemy or coin, it immediately turns into a bubble. When an enemy 
 is trapped into a bubble it turns into a coin. You can then drag the coin to Baby Mario or Yoshi 
 if you're on the ground and you obtain whatever point value assigned to the coin. During the ground 
 levels, you can draw clouds over holes on the ground to stop Yoshi from falling. Also available 
 is the option to jump, which is easily executed by simply tapping Yoshi. Sometimes enemies can 
 get a little overwhelming, and this is the best time to toss an egg at an enemy. Just tap the screen 
 where you want to direct the egg and it will be sent flying. Be careful, wind can redirect the 
 eggs, and also destroy any clouds you have drawn on the screen. Also, throughout your adventures, 
 Yoshi will wander past different types of fruit, which can replenish his egg supply.
  
  One very important thing to point out is that the color Yoshi you get to control on the ground 
 is dictated by how many points you receive as Baby Mario falls to the ground. Each Yoshi has a 
 different egg capacity and speed of travel. The colors very from green, blue, pink, yellow, red... 
 and even a few "special ones" but I'll leave those for you to discover.
  
  As I stated earlier, there are four different modes of play, two of which are available at the 
 beginning of the game. Score attack is pretty straightforward. You score as many points as possible 
 before you reach the stork. If you get a high enough score, you'll be able to enter your score 
 on the high score list.
  
  Marathon mode bids you to get as far along as possible. Unlike score attack, the level never ends. 
 Each 100 points you reach gets you a super star, and every 1000 yards you travel transfers Baby 
 Mario to a new colored Yoshi.
  
  Time attack mode's objective is to rescue Baby Luigi (not Mario) from the toadies as quickly as 
 possible. You have to hit each Toadie with eggs before the fall away from Baby Luigi. Make sure 
 to be smart and conserve your eggs.
  
  Challenge mode tosses the challenge at you to get as far as you can on the ground within a set 
 time limit. Just like Marathon mode, there is no end to the level. You also have the option to 
 play two-player mode with a buddy. A cool thing is that you only need one game, and it takes a 
 mere 45 seconds to upload.
  
  Graphically, Yoshi's T&G is a page right out of the ol' Nintendo book. Character designs are well 
 done, vibrant in color, and generally look great. The game has a great classic appeal. The background 
 has several layers on it, much like Yoshi's Island, and everything moves around, adding a nice 
 touch. The sprite animation is suitable and there aren't any choppy moments with the animation. 
 It may not push the DS to the limits, but it suits the game well. Menus are well done and are a 
 breeze to navigate.
  
  Again, much like the graphics, every sound in the game is exceptionally well done. It's easy to 
 recognize how well done the DS's full stereo sound is utilized. Lots of classic sounds in each 
 level, character bleeps and noises are simply awesome.
  
  I can safely tell you that Yoshi's Touch & Go will keep you hooked for quite some time. Contrary 
 to what you might assume from screen shots, each mode of the game offers a substantial challenge. 
 The high scores you will be gunning for are really tough to reach, ensuring that you'll be drawing 
 bubbles and clouds and tossing eggs at monkeys for quite some time.
  
  This is one of the top games in the DS library. Yoshi's T&G is an outstanding game with crisp graphics, 
 unique gameplay, and super appeal for nearly any kind of gamer. This is a must have for any DS 
 owner, and a must play for all Nintendo fans.
  
  From thegreenplug. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no-register
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 8, 2005 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi's Touch & Go is an enjoyable gaming experience if you're looking for a simple mini-gaming 
 experience. There's no indepth plot, no advancing to speak of -- just four different modes of gameplay 
 wherein it is your job to keep Yoshi and Baby Mario save so they can get as far as possible, get 
 the highest score possible, or finish as quickly as possible -- depending on which of the game modes 
 you're playing in.
  
  If you enjoy it when you pick it up the first time, you'll likely always enjoy it -- to some extent, 
 anyway. With the simple nature of it, there's really no beating it -- no finishing it. You can 
 compete for higher and higher scores -- and that's the extent of it.
  
  Personally, I think this game should have been released with the DS -- it's size and lack of depth 
 make it the perfect candidate for shipping as a tech demo. I don't know that it's worth the 30 
 dollars -- I'd definitely rent before buying. It's not for everyone, but great for some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian73
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2005 4:49 am PT
Review:  Yoshi's Touch and go is a good game overall, but the game does has some minor flaws.. for example, 
 the gameplay isnt as good as one could expect. You use the touch screen throughout the whole game. 
 that can be anoying. Some good things about it is that you can spend hours playing the game and 
 not get very bored. Basicly there are two parts. getting baby mario down to ground safely.. and 
 guiding yoshi to the stork by hitting coins and defeating enemys. So if your the kind of person 
 who likes to compete to beat the high score.. this is probably the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JesusDude4ever
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2005 12:54 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game at a local blockbuster, and man, was it entertaining. You start off with 
 two modes. Score attack, where you try to get a high score, and marathon mode where you try to 
 get as far as you can without stopping. This is an endless mode. When you get highscores on both 
 modes, you open up challenge mode and time attack mode. EVen though this game has no story line, 
 it is still addictive, trying to beat your high scores. You draw clouds to guide yoshi and baby 
 mario, circle enemies to turn them into coins, and much more. Not much i can explain with this, 
 but this is a must have for your DS. Good Quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homestar1005
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 27, 2005 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I can't belive I bought this game. A few weeks ago I got this game, now I want to return it back. This 
 game is fun but it's missing alot of things. I could of give it a higher score if they just added 
 a story mode or something like that. The gameplay is all right. There's nothing new about the graphics 
 it's the same as Yoshi Island in GBA. The sound is ok. The game turns boring after 1 hour. In the 
 endless mode it seems that the levels keeps repeating it's self over again. I think that you should 
 rent the game Not buy it or just wait to be cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie_IV
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 27, 2005 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes you end up with a formula that wouldn't seem to need any alterations at all. However, 
 at times, certain people feel that they still need to tweak some things a little even after it 
 would seem that they have been perfected. Others choose to make massive changes to their own creations 
 without a second thought. Such is the case with Yoshi's Touch N' Go for the Nintendo DS. The game 
 is clearly based on the mid-90's SNES platformer Yoshi's Island, which starred Nintendo's adorable 
 dinosaur Yoshi and an infantile version of it's famed plumber Mario. However, instead of relying 
 on a more familiar means of controlling the pair, the game requires the player (some might say 
 that it forces them) to use the DS' rather unique features to make your way through the game. It's 
 a new twist on an old favorite, but it lacks just a bit of what the older games that it is based 
 off of had, and in the end that manages to hurt it more than a bit. 
  
  As stated, the game is a two-dimensional platformer, at least of sorts. Instead of controlling 
 the main characters with the control pad, you're required to control them with the system's touch 
 screen and microphone. Such a setup would be utterly impossible on any other system, so it would 
 seem that the game is meant as yet another demonstration of the DS' rather unique capabilities, 
 which would make sense due to the fact that it has its origins in a tech demo that was shown at 
 the 2004 Electronic Entertainment Expo. To play the game, you are normally required to draw on 
 the touch screen using the stylus to create rows of clouds that direct the characters around. Drawing 
 circles with the clouds will create bubbles, which can either ensnare enemies or allow you to bring 
 items back to your heroes. Blowing on the system's microphone will remove all of the clouds that 
 you've drawn, just in case you've made a mistake. This all works fairly well, but it is a bit easy 
 to make some errors while you're working. The game does allow you to restart at any time, but it 
 can still become frustrating to make mistakes endlessly when you just want to make some progress.
 
  
  Each and every one of the game's different modes is actually broken up into two distinctly different 
 sections. They all start with a scene where you must safeguard Baby Mario as he drifts down out 
 of the sky, as well as help him to collect coins as he falls down. The clouds that you draw are 
 supposed to control his descent by altering his path, but the process is made a bit more difficult 
 by the fact that Mario always remains on the top screen, forcing you to figure out where he's going 
 to go instead of controlling him from where he is. This makes it a bit more difficult to collect 
 items and avoid enemies, but that's actually helps to prevent the game from getting to easy for 
 it's own good.
  
  After Yoshi catches Mario, the game becomes a side-scrolling affair. In this mode the game auto-scrolls. 
 Yoshi moves forward on his own, which means that you have to rush to do everything before Yoshi 
 blunders into an enemy or falls off of a cliff. Still, the game wouldn't be as much fun if you 
 could sit back and do things as you pleased, so the sense of urgency that it gives the game is 
 a bit welcome. When you're controlling Yoshi, you're given a few additional moves that you can 
 perform. Tapping any part of the touch screen except for Yoshi himself will cause him to throw 
 an egg, which can be used to defeat enemies or collect items. Collecting fruit replenishes his 
 stock of eggs, so it's important to keep an eye out for anything edible. Tapping Yoshi himself 
 will cause him to jump. Touching him again when he's in the air will cause him to hover in the 
 air. It can actually become rather difficult to aim eggs properly, depending on where Yoshi is 
 and where your target is. It can get rather frustrating to not be able to hit something because 
 it's directly overhead and there's not enough room to make Yoshi throw an egg instead of jumping 
 when you touch the screen, and this does show of one of the weaknesses of the game's control scheme. 
 Still, this doesn't happen so often that it ruins the game, it's just a minor problem that arises 
 a bit too much.
  
  There are four different modes of play for you to take part in, as well as a two-player versus 
 mode that requires two systems but only one game cartridge. The first is Score Attack, in which 
 you must try to gain the highest possible score by the end of the level. Second is Marathon, in 
 which you simply must survive for as long as possible. Achieving high scores in those two modes 
 will unlock two more modes of play for you. Time Attack requires you to reach the end of a stage 
 in the fastest time possible. Challenge mode requires you to stay alive for as long as possible 
 by keeping a timer from running out. You can add to it by defeating enemies and collecting coins, 
 though it's still mainly just a matter of not getting yourself killed before time runs out. The 
 problem with all of these play modes is, they all feel almost exactly the same. They may all feature 
 slightly different play mechanics, and involve different level builds, but the fact remains that 
 the gameplay doesn't change between them very much. On top of that, none of them are very long 
 at all, meaning that the replay value runs out even faster than you'd want it to. It would have 
 made this game a lot better if they had structured it like a traditional Mario game, with stages 
 instead of different modes. It would have made it a lot longer, and would have given it more replay 
 value than it ended up having.
  
  The game does look very nice. It's art style is clearly based off of the style of it's SNES predecessor, 
 but it does lack just a bit of the detail that the previous title had. It doesn't look quite as 
 cartoony, or have as much detail in it's environments. This may disappoint fans of the old game 
 just a bit, seeing as how the vibrant style that was present in the previous game has been toned 
 down more than a bit here. But it's not so bad that it causes the game to lose whatever resemblance 
 it had to the other games. It's just that it's a bit disappointing to see it lose a bit of the 
 style that the series had before now.
  
  The game sounds good as well. The music is a mixture of some tunes from other Mario games and some 
 new songs as well. They all sound good, but the problem is that aside from the old songs, most 
 of the music is relatively forgettable. Then again, it is all usually resigned to the background 
 instead of being placed over the game's sound effects. The other sounds are relatively fun and 
 dont get in the way, and you will notice a few sounds that have been brought over from Yoshi's 
 Island, which is a nice touch. There are a few voice samples that have been added, most notably 
 Baby Mario's crying, which as annoying as it ever was. Still, sound is a strong point for the game 
 overall.
  
  In the end, Yoshi's Touch N' Go is a nice game to buy if you already have a DS. It's not very long, 
 or terribly challenging, but most of the focus is on attaining high scores instead of finishing 
 levels. It would have been nicer if the game was longer, especially given that it only has four 
 different modes of play and one multiplayer mode, but what's there is enjoyable enough. It's just 
 sad that you'll see everything that the game has to offer pretty quickly, and once that's happened, 
 you'll end up getting tired of it sooner than you probably should. This game can be recommended, 
 but only if you already have the system. Otherwise, it's not worth going out of your way for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolyat999
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 27, 2005 4:27 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: For a game that you dont have direct control over the main character, it actually has 
 very good gameplay. The game has two different styles of gameplay, one when Baby Mario is falling 
 from the sky and another when Yoshi is carrying him on his back. You will also find, once you have 
 gotten a hang of the Baby Mario stages that most of the time you will be playing the Yoshi stages. 
 These styles of gameplay are similar, yet different. During the Baby Mario stages you will draw 
 clouds on the bottom screen to try to direct Baby Mario in the right path, away from enemies and 
 into coins. You can also encircle coins and most enemies, turning them into a bubble to fling them 
 into Baby Mario or just letting them float up to him. 
  You will notice that Baby Mario stays always on the top screen so you will have to be thinking 
 about where to place your clouds, and always thinking ahead. Yoshi: Touch and Go is essentially 
 an "old school" style (so to speak) game where the point is to get the highest score. Therefore, 
 because the Baby Mario stages don't add to your score (expect in one mode) you can see that it 
 takes a backseat to the Yoshi Stages. Then, why you ask do they even have these stages? Because 
 however many coins you collect on the Baby Mario bits, translates into a different color Yoshi 
 in the side-scrolling levels. Different colored Yoshi's mean different amounts of eggs they can 
 carry (we will get to that later) , therefore increasing your chances of getting a better score. 
 
  
  Now we come to the side-scrolling, Yoshi levels. There are more things you can do on these levels, 
 more gameplay elements, more enemies in general, which makes it a sometimes hectic, always fun 
 time. You still draw clouds in these levels, helping Yoshi across pits by building bridges or guiding 
 him over or under harm's way (a. k. a enemies) . You can also still make bubbles out of enemies, turning 
 a threat into a reward and getting points in the process. Unique to Yoshi is the ability to throw 
 eggs. Just tap the screen anywhere (make sure it's the touch screen mind you!) and he will hurl 
 an egg at it. This is a better way to deal with enemies rather then encircling them but since you 
 are limited in your supply of eggs you have to choose strategically when and where to throw them. 
 You can't throw too many eggs because you will run out and most certainly die (one hit kills in 
 this game folks) but if you throw too little, the screen will be clogged with enemies. 
  Speaking of eggs, the enemies to deal with are standard Mario/Yoshi fare but are varied nicely 
 so to make it challenging but not overly repetitive. I have to confess that this is the first Yoshi 
 game I have played, (no Yoshi's Island for me) but there are quite a few enemies that I haven't 
 come into contact with in previous Mario games. Bats that swoop up and down, fish that jump out 
 of the water, ghost like creatures that fly across the screen and much more. 
  There are four different modes of play found in the game. First is Score Attack which is simply, 
 get the most points in one baby Mario level and 1000 yards of Yoshi. The surroundings stay the 
 same for this mode so you can get a better strategy for the next time you play it (because you 
 will definitely have to play it numerous times in order to beat the best high score, which unlocks 
 the next mode I will go into) . Score Attack mode isn't one of my favorite modes because it doesn't 
 have much replay value after you've beaten it.
  Time Attack is the mode you unlock for beating the high score in Score Attack. It's basiccily what 
 you would expect; beat it in the fastest time possible. For this mode, in the Baby Mario section 
 you will come across stars that will make him invincible and go a lot faster. Your goal is to guide 
 him to the stars and also think about getting points; making it easier in the Yoshi part is you 
 have a better capable Yoshi. Also, at the end of the Yoshi stage you will face the closest thing 
 you'll get to a boss in the game. I don't know the name of them, but they are the main bad guys 
 in this game (actually they are not guys, they look similar to witches) . Anyways, they have gotten 
 hold of Baby Mario and you have to fling eggs at them to defeat them. 
  Marathon mode is one of my favorites. The goal is to get the farthest you can by staying alive 
 as long as you can. In the Baby Mario section you don't have to worry about dieing as much because 
 he had 3 balloons tied to his back, signifying three lives. But in the Yoshi stage you have to 
 be on your toes because one hit will do you in. Another thing about this mode is that every 1000 
 yards in the Yoshi Stage there is a little break where you get a better colored Yoshi that carries 
 more eggs and the scenery changes, randomly but always harder, with more enemies. This mode is 
 fun because you never know quite what to expect, but it you play it enough you will get a feel 
 for everything it has to offer.
  Lastly we have Challenge mode which is unlocked by beating Marathon mode and is similar to it. 
 The idea stays the same; get the farthest you can by staying alive. In this mode however, there 
 is a timer ticking down and the goal is to add seconds to the clock by getting coins and killing 
 enemies. This mode is also one of my favorites along side Marathon mode; they just have a lot of 
 replayability.
  
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Yoshi: Touch and Go don't push polygons so to speak (I'm not much of 
 a tech junkie) but are really nice to look at and have a nice, distinct style. Everything is really 
 bright and colorful. The actions are performed smoothly and the when the enemies die it's a nice 
 touch to see them fall down, into the abyss that is known as "off the screen". Overall the graphics 
 do a nice job portraying the gameplay on the screen and is nice to look at, at the same time.
 
  
  Sound: The sound effects are nice, from Yoshi's distinctive yelp as he jumps to Baby Mario's gleeful 
 cry as a balloon full of coins hits him. The sound isn't too varied but it's quite catchy and fits 
 the style of play, whether it is Baby Mario falling from the sky or Yoshi, on his pleasant stroll. 
 All in all, the sound gets a thumbs up from me.
  
  Value: If you like this game as much as I do then it has a lot of replay value. It's not a story-driven, 
 or mission based game where you have to spend a certain amount of time to beat it. It's definitely 
 a pick-up and play kind of game that you could keep on coming back to for a long time. It also 
 has a nice multi-player mode that is a nice addition if you have a friend with a DS. It's single-card 
 play so they won't need a copy to play against you. There is only one mode of multi-player but 
 it's very addicting so it's not really lacking much by not giving you more options. During play, 
 you will see your opponent on the top screen with you on the bottom. This is only Yoshi now, no 
 Baby Mario stages. 
  You both start at the same time and you try to beat the other player to 1000 yards. If you draw 
 clouds under his feet, Yoshi will walk faster then normal so it is key to have him walk on clouds 
 most of the time. The only interaction with the other player is to get combos. Killing three or 
 more enemies with a single egg causes that many spiky enemies to appear on your opponent's screen. 
 This makes the game very hectic at times and makes it so most games, you won't reach the end of 
 the race because one of the Yoshi's has died. Overall, it has some good replay value. 
  
  Bottom line: If you have a DS and you are waiting for a good game that nicely uses its features, 
 this is the game for you. It's an innovative title, with solid, fun gameplay. If your looking for 
 a DS game in general this is also the game for you. Basically what I'm trying to say is: Get this 
 game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_64
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2005 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Lets just get to the point shall we?
  
  Yoshi Touch and Go is a game that was a tech demo for the DS back at E3 2004. It displayed the 
 use of the touch screen being used to draw clouds to guide baby Mario to Yoshi's back. 
  
  To begin with, in this game there are two types of gameplay, with four different modes. The modes 
 are Score Attack (self explanitory) , Challenge mode where you have to kill enemies to keep the 
 timer going or else when it reaches zero you lose, Marathon which is a endless mode, and Time Attack 
 where you must save baby Luigi from Kamek's Toadies as fast as you can. The two types of gameplay 
 are one where you have to guide baby mario to yoshi's back, getting hit will pop a balloon, and 
 lose all balloons and its game over. The second part is when you reach Yoshi, you must guide the 
 little dino to your goal depending on what gameplay mode your playing. If you havent known by now, 
 let me say this, Yoshi Touch and Go is NOT A PLATFORMER, its a arcade like puzzle game. This game 
 has no end, you just try to beat your score and get combos as best you can. Let me tell you though 
 that this game is challenging and it does have some depth in it as well. Believe me it will be 
 hard to score over 300 points your first, because this game is entirely different.
  
  This game is good at showing Nintendo's DS features, it does offer a new way of playing games. 
 You see you draw clouds on the touch screen that help you guide yoshi and baby Mario away from 
 danger. Drawing circles around enemies and helpful items trap them in a bubble that you can use 
 to put in front of Yoshi/Baby Mario's path or fling it towards them. You shoot eggs with a tap 
 of the screen which helps clear out trouble and grab items on the top screen, and blowing into 
 the mic clears up any clouds that may be blocking your path or leading to danger because of your 
 mistakes. All this comes with some deep gameplay and easy to pick up and play for on the go play.
 
  
  Now the graphics in this game arent pushing the DS to the limit really, its retaining the old Yoshi's 
 Island look of the game but with a brighter and more vivid color count. There is also lots of enemy 
 sprites on both screens when you progree further in marathon mode, or challenge mode which is quite 
 good too. Nothing breath taking reallly, but nice and bright which is good.
  
  The sound contains some voice clips of Yoshi and Baby Mario, and Kamek as well. Nothing much, but 
 the music is a nice treat for anyone whose played Yoshi's Island. It fits nicely but there's nothing 
 new or exciting in it, and compared SM64DS or MP: H demo the sound doesnt use the Virtual Surround 
 sound on the DS like those titles. Its ok though because its not aweful and the music changes everytime 
 your in a different area to keep you from getting annoyed.
  
  The last thing I would like to say about this game is, while it does feel like a Single-Player 
 story mode would be great, and is needed. Its not a big fault from this game, thats probably the 
 only fault I would say with it. The rest of the game is just great and it shines well on the DS 
 as it truly does use the dual screens and the touch screen to good use. You'll have to keep an 
 eye on both screens as danger can come from in front or above, and there are bonuses too look up 
 for as well like 5+ scoring lakitu, or egg replenishing fruits, or a line of coins that will lead 
 to a combo. All in all its a great game and well worth the money, I found it for $30 but Ive seen 
 it at other places for $35. Make sure you look around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wakeboard_Dude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2005 1:16 am PT
Review:  Yoshi's touch and go comes off as a kiddy, boring game at first, but don't dismiss it that easily. 
 When you start up the game you'll have two modes to choose from. One is Score attack. In this mode 
 you try and get as many coins by either collecting actual coins or destroying enemies in a certain 
 amount of time. This mode can get kind of frustrating as you only have a certain amount of time 
 to get the coins and it restricts the possibility of your score. The other mode is Marathon mode. 
 This is what gives the gameplay a 9 for me, which few games can. This is the kind of mode where 
 you go as far as you possibly can, then by some act of nature, you die when you know you were smart 
 enough to dodge it. So you scream out some curse words and start again. To some this would be frustrating 
 and get boring and seem shallow, but to the lovers of the old games like Pac-man where the game 
 never ends and you just try to get the highest score possible, it's an absolute blast. I don't 
 know why, but I love getting this *gets index finger to thumb as close as possible* close to beating 
 my high score, then losing it all so I can try again. Then there is that overwhelming excitement 
 when you beat your highscore, and you just go telling everyone "I beat it! Take that now weaklings! 
 I am absolutely better than you because I beat my highscore!". If you like this game, then this 
 is for you. 
  Now about the actual content of the game. In both modes you start out as a baby mario falling to 
 the ground. In this vertical level you just have to draw clouds using the stylus to manuever baby 
 mario (who is always on the top screen) around the enemies while getting as many coins as possible. 
 It is also possible to draw circles around the non-spiked enemies which turns them into a bubble 
 with a coin in them which you drag to mario. After this the game goes to the horizontal level. 
 With this you are yoshi who constantly walks at a steady pace while you manipulate the world around 
 him. This is actually the complete opposite of what a normal platformer is, since you don't control 
 the character, you control the world. You draw clouds so you won't fall down the gaps that are 
 in the game like there would be in any other 2d platformer. If you don't want to draw clouds, or 
 if the game blows the clouds away (it will happen) then you have to be quick and tap yoshi to make 
 him jump, tap him while he's in the air and he'll do his famous flutter kick. You can also tap 
 a spot on the touch screen and yoshi will throw an egg there, this can be used for dispatching 
 large amounts of enemies of for those spiked enemies who can't be dealt with by drawing circles 
 around them. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanthegreat232
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2005 8:38 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games avalible for the DS. It is a shame it wasn't available at launch. 
 
  People keep complaining the game is to short. It isnt if your a person who likes to strive for 
 the best score possible, Sure you can beet the minimum score to unlock the next game type. That 
 doesent mean you have beaten the game. Try for the high score, or even play the multiplayer against 
 a freind. Today i had to go to the airport. i was playing the game against my cousin, i must say 
 Multiplayer is awsome. Pure fun. Every time you hit a combo of enemies (3 or more with one egg) 
 That many enemies randomly apear on your opponents screen making it unpredictable and new every 
 time you play.
  
  If your the type of person who enjoys trying to beat your previous best score. or maybe letting 
 your friends try to beat it. Buy this game. It is in no way to short! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshaskins
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2005 4:47 am PT
Review:  Does innovation have to come at the expense of value? You wouldn't think the two should have to 
 be mutually exclusive, but the way Nintendo's DS library is shaping up that would seem to be precisely 
 the case. WarioWare Touched! was inventive and fun, but only about half as long as its GBA predecessor; 
 Pokmon Dash was like a minigame stretched tortuously to a full-length product. And now completing 
 Nintendo's trifecta of novelty over depth is Yoshi Touch & Go: It's incredibly fun, it's highly 
 original, it's packed with charm, and it's guaranteed to leave gamers scratching their heads wondering, 
 "Is this it?" 
  The problem with Touch & Go isn't one of quality or creativity; on the contrary, it's a game very 
 much in keeping with Nintendo's reputation for excellence. The visuals and overall feel of the 
 adventure position the game as a true sequel to 1995's excellent Yoshi's Island on the Super NES, 
 so we can finally, mercifully forget about Yoshi's Story on the N64. The characters, level design 
 and even basic gameplay share much in common with the SNES classic. Once again, a careless stork 
 has dropped Baby Mario en route to the cabbage patch (or wherever it is that Nintendo characters 
 are born) , and it falls to a troupe of Yoshi's to reunite child and courier once again. 
  
  Where Touch & Go differs from the original is in the fact that not only do you not control Mario, 
 you also have no direct control over Yoshi, either. Instead, you play a sort of "god" role, creating 
 paths and capturing enemies with the DS stylus to ensure the heroes reach their goal safely. Your 
 only ability to directly affect Yoshi comes by tapping him to make him jump and hover. It's not 
 an entirely new gaming concept -- in fact, it closely resembles Nintendo's quirky early NES title 
 Gumshoe, in which you protect and direct a wandering sleuth with the Zapper light gun. 
  
  However, Touch & Go offers a much more satisfying experience than anything that has come before. 
 The touch screen is extremely tactile compared to the mouse or light gun interface common to this 
 sort of game, and it gives a real sense of immediacy to the action. Control boils down to four 
 basic actions. Drawing a line with the stylus creates a path made of clouds which can serve as 
 a bridge or ramp for Yoshi and Mario; drawing a circle around an enemy will trap it or turn it 
 into a coin; tapping Yoshi will cause him to jump and hover; and tapping anywhere else on the screen 
 will cause Yoshi to toss an egg in that direction, which is handy for snagging coins or knocking 
 down enemies. This simple palette of commands makes for a deceptively fast-paced and challenging 
 game: Because your characters are always on the move, keeping up with everything happening on the 
 screen is a true test of skill. 
  
  The graphics aren't quite as quirky as those in Yoshi's Island, but the scenery, foes and mechanics 
 will be familiar to fans regardless. The references span everything from fruit-chucking monkeys 
 climbing trees, to moles popping out of cave walls, to those annoyingly indestructible spiky guys, 
 to Mario's ability to go it alone with an invincibility star power-up. Happily, Touch & Go comes 
 out way ahead of its prequel in terms of sound. Since Yoshi suffers from one-hit deaths here, there's 
 no "recapture Mario" countdown to deal with when you're hit -- which means no baby yowling an ear-splitting 
 wail as you try to recover him. The more mundane mechanics, such as animation and responsiveness, 
 are spot-on. It's an extremely polished game, and overall the content is excellent. 
  
  Unfortunately, there's just not that much content to speak of. Touch & Go doesn't simply play a 
 lot like Gumshoe... it also has depth reminiscent of a first-generation NES game. Which is to say, 
 not much. 
  
  There are just a few simple modes to the game -- the main one is a straightforward two-part affair 
 which begins with Baby Mario descending through the sky which, for some reason, is lousy with monsters 
 and floating cacti. The wee tyke has three balloons slowing his descent, and each enemy collision 
 bursts one of them; the goal is simply to keep him safe by drawing cloud paths for him to slide 
 along, protecting him long enough to reach the ground intact, collecting coins and bumping off 
 bad guys as he goes. Once Mario touches down, Yoshi takes over for a horizontally-scrolling phase 
 which is far more hectic and challenging. 
  
  There's also an endless mode which simply tests how far you can travel on foot, swapping Mario 
 like a relay baton from Yoshi to Yoshi every kilometer; a time attack stage in which you're trying 
 to recover Baby Luigi from his captors; and a final unlockable mode in which you're shooting for 
 both distance and time. Unfortunately, that's all there really is to Touch & Go -- a series of 
 mini-game modes that challenge you to achieve the highest score possible. For instance, the standard 
 quest mode is simply about completing both sections while collecting 300 coins; if you fall short, 
 you try again. If you succeed, you try again and shoot to snag a few more coins than last time. 
 There's no escalating difficulty, no new and different goals to strive for. And this is where the 
 game falls short: Without any sort of structure or incentive in place, it's difficult to stay interested 
 once you move beyond the initial novelty of the game. 
  
  For all of it's innovation, and personality, Touch & Go feels incomplete. It seems like Nintendo 
 had a bunch of great ideas for parts of a game, put them together, polished them up, and then forgot 
 to connect them into a cohesive whole. Yoshi's Island was an amazing game, and Touch & Go feels 
 more like a quick survey of its predecessor rather than a full-fledged sequel. It sits uncomfortably 
 on the borderline between puzzle game and platformer, but it lacks the substance of the latter 
 while failing to capture the "zen trance" feel of something like Tetris or Lumines. It's an incredibly 
 fun game, and its obvious ties to one of the greatest 16-bit platformers of all time will warm 
 the heart of anyone with good taste. With a little more variety and a bit of effort to bring the 
 whole thing together, Nintendo could have had another classic on its hands; as it stands, Touch 
 & Go is just another high-quality novelty for the DS. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LumosPG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2005 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Well, what a surprise. For once, this is a real game for the DS. Even trough the graphics, music 
 and all sounds very familiar... Yoshi Touch'n'go is an original, cute, difficult game. Yes, difficult 
 to master. Race for high score is the priority and the main "Marathon" mode may keep you up some 
 nights. The whole clouds / bubbles / yoshi thing will ask you some time t'ill you go familiar with 
 it, but trust me, once this first period behind you, it will be pure pleasure. Note speaking of 
 the vicious multiplayer mode. One of the best game for the DS till here. Really. I mean it. Can't 
 go wrong with that one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerjt
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2005 2:22 am PT
Review:  Of the fore game that I have played on the DS this is the worst. The gameplay is good and it is 
 a fun game, but it is very hard and very shout. You use the touch screen to drow a path for Yashi 
 to fallow. With the eggs he can shoot bad giys. If you are good at the game you can get done with 
 it in two hours. Do not get this game. Wate for it to be chepper, barrow it from a friend, or rent 
 it. But do not buy the game as it is way too short. It is still worth getting your hands on as 
 it is a fun game. It is just too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2005 2:17 am PT
Review:  game play use your stylus /finger to draw clouds and guide b. mario down to the side scrolling part 
 touch to get to scores but fun i saY nintendo is great revolution sounds good
  
  sound the music is ok there is not many effects only dings and clicks and when you blow in mic 
 a blowing sound all are ok but id say they should have made it different 
  
  graphics 3-D elements in a 2-D side scrolling world the best 2-D game out now ! 1 reason nintendo 
 should do a couple for gc this way 
  
  value there is 2 modes available at start which are hard to pass a top score to unlock 2 more modes 
 -moderate but still a great game plus it has multiplayer 
  
  tilt get this if your like me which you have most of the ds games out even if you dont you shouild 
 buy it is a must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dog64
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2005 3:37 am PT
Review:  If you hope this game will be like the Super Mario World 2, you will be disappointed. The game has 
 no storyline. The main goal in this game is to get the highest score. Once you beat the highest 
 score, you will unlock a new option on the main menu. However, there are only two options to unlock. 
 
  The two main modes are Score Attack and Marathon. In Score attack, you rack up points by collecting 
 coins and destroying enemies. In Marathon the game is measured in yards and the goal is to travel 
 3000 yards.
  Each time you start a level, it starts with baby Mario falling down slowly on the top screen. You 
 must draw lines, or clouds, around enemies so that baby Mario will not touch enemies. He also has 
 three balloons. When you touch a enemy, a balloon disappears. When you touch three enemies, you must 
 restart. 
  When you control Yoshi, he moves by himself. You must guide him to the end of the course by drawing 
 clouds over gaps, drawing clouds over things or into coins, and of course, avoiding enemies. Unlike 
 baby Mario, as soon as Yoshi touches a enemy you must restart. You can choose to restart the whole 
 level or restart with yoshi and baby Mario.
  After you complete a level, the score screen appears. It displays your score and the high scores, which 
 there are eight. When you beat the highest score, you will get the extra option on the menu.
  Overall, the game is very good. But it has no story to follow and the levels will repeat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vipervv
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2005 12:04 am PT
Review:  I believe Yoshis Touch & Go is the best thing the DS currently has to offer. Many have stated 
 that this game lacks substance and doesnt continue the story line associated with the Mario series. 
 And this may be true. Still, That doesnt make it a poor game. 
  This title stands out from the rest of the DS library simply because it offers something never 
 before seen in a video game. That is what the DS is all about. Yoshis Touch & Go, with its randomly 
 generated stages, has quite a long lasting replay value, which makes me very excited about owning 
 it. Ive spent hours already trying to perfect the way I guide Baby Mario down through the sky. 
 Then I keep Yoshi safe from all harm for as long as I possibly can and you know what? It never 
 gets old! That is what makes a great game in the long run. 
  I think Nintendo did exactly what they planned to with this title. They gave us an experience unlike 
 current generation games in every way. If anything, I believe a story mode may have detracted from 
 the truly infinite replay value of this game by bringing a false since of closure to early on the 
 life of the game. 
  Feel free to disagree with me, but I think this is one of Nintendos best titles in a while.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecheeta
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 18, 2005 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I am having a hard time figuring out why people aren't giving this game rave reviews. I own every 
 system out, and I am by no means a Nintendo fanboy, and I simply love this game. The 2d graphics 
 are fresh and have a fun style. The sound matches the graphics and theme perfectly. The gameplay 
 is top-notch. This control scheme simply works. Once you play the game for a while, all of the 
 controls make sense. Nintendo has sucessfully blurred the line between a strategy/puzzle game and 
 a 2d platformer game. If you are looking for a 2d platformer sequel to Yoshi's Island, or Super 
 Mario World, then you are going to be dissapointed with the lack of variety in the levels (because 
 thats not what this game is all about) . But if you are looking for a puzzle/strategy game you are 
 going to be pleasantly happy with the amount of variety in the levels. I honestly think that Nintendo 
 shot itself in the foot when it came out with this game as a tech demo. Now all of these editor's 
 that saw the game as a tech demo at last year's E3, keep seeing the game as a tech demo. I think 
 they forget the feeling they first had when they played this game. This game is a nice flashback 
 to the days of mastering a game to try to get the top score, instead of blowing through a game 
 to get past the final level. Thats why I think it's replay value is so high. There is really no 
 such thing as beating the game. This is my favorite game of the year so far for any platform, and 
 my favorite portable game since WarioWare for GBA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: culturejammer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 17, 2005 7:48 pm PT
Review:  There's a lot of bellyaching about how this isn't a platformer or how this isn't an adventure game. 
 There's also a lot of complaining about how there are only "two levels" in the game, and how Nintendo 
 merely packaged the tech demo to make a quick buck. As for the first complaint: get over it. This 
 isn't an adventure game and it never claimed to be. As for the second: this is mostly untrue.
 
  
  There are, in fact, two different games - the vertical falling mario and the horizontal yoshi - 
 but there are a number of different levels for each. How many points you score in the mario stage 
 determines what type of yoshi you get (which affects how fast you travel and how many eggs you 
 can carry) and how difficult the yoshi stage will be (how many enemies there are and how rare the 
 egg-replenishing fruit is) . Once you learn how to steer baby mario, you will see the difficulty 
 increase in the yoshi stage at the same pace. There are randomly generated levels in some of the 
 modes, so that the only thing you've seen before is the background.
  
  The bottom line is that this game plays very well. It is more of a puzzle game, in that there is 
 no end and you can always do better. Once you learn how to steer mario and yoshi using the clouds, 
 you'll start trying to round up the other coins and enemies on the bottom screen by drawing bubbles. 
 If you can learn to manage the entire bottom screen, than you can start trying to catch all the 
 stuff passing you on the top screen. All the while, the game throws more things at you as your 
 skills develop.
  
  The gameplay is great. The touch screen allows for a very quick and hectic gaming experience. You 
 are surrounded by potential actions that are merely a twitch of your hand away. The graphics are 
 alright (I would have preferred to have seen them a little more stylized like Yoshi's Island, but 
 it is crisp and colorful) , there isn't anything wrong wth the sound, and the game is a damn good 
 value for $30. This is the best original game out there for the DS. So, while we're all waiting 
 for online Advance Wars, Animal Crossing, and Metroid, lets just try and appreciate how this is 
 the only game beside Mario 64 to make a DS worth having in the mean time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdancexyayxnayx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2005 12:14 pm PT
Review:  ignore all the people who have only gave this low marks because it is one of the best games on 
 the ds so far. It has great graphics, is fun to play, good sound and is fairly hard in my view so 
 you won`t complete it in 1 day like warioware or project rub. This game has used the touch screen 
 the best out of all the ds games so far. It really shows what the ds can do and is probably my favorite 
 ds game so far. Mario 64 does not really use the touch screen much apart from the mini games, project 
 rub has few mini games and warioware depends way to much on the touch screen and many of the games 
 require you to do the same things but with different sceniorios (not spelt right i know) . So all 
 in all taking into account this machine is a touch screen but thats not all it can do (warioware) 
 i`d say this is by far the best overall game to date 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
