-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Yoshi's Island DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/yoshisisland2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A wildly diverse platformer with lots of huge levels.
 all of the different babies abilities give players plenty to do.
 crayon graphics and lighthearted music provide a charming atmosphere.
 unlocking everything is a real challenge, even if finishing the game is easy.
 improves on the original without mucking anything up.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some people may not like the cleaned-up graphics.
 music tends to be understated.
 no multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.1
Critic Score: 8.2, 47 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 2,515 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Artoon
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Nov 13, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Yoshi's Island DS is a terrific platformer thats every bit as fun and charming as its predecessor. 
 

  Many people feel that the original Yoshi's Island is one of the best platformers ever made (if 
 not  the  best) . After all, it was a fun Mario-style game with an interesting mix of gameplay ideas. 
 Its charming crayon-inspired visual style was also unlike anything else we'd seen up to that point. 
 For the sequel, Nintendo and Artoon clearly wanted to keep everything that people loved about the 
 original game intact. Besides the obvious uptick in audio-visual quality that is afforded by the 
 Nintendo DS, Yoshi's Island DS pretty much looks, sounds, and plays just like its predecessor. 
 There is one significant improvement that the sequel introduces: You can now plop different babies 
 onto Yoshi's back and take advantage of the unique abilities that each diapered tot has to offer. 
 It sounds like such a modest change, yet it totally kicks the sequel's replay value into the stratosphere. 
 The different tykes give you more ways to frustrate enemies and more ways to interact with the 
 environment. And, because certain babies can access spots that others can't, you're always discovering 
 new items and secrets each time you go through a level. Thanks to this one key upgrade, Yoshi's 
 Island DS manages to duplicate the look and feel of its predecessor yet seem fresh and new at the 
 same time. It also accomplishes this without mucking up any of the things that made the original 
 so great in the first place.  

           Like its predecessor, Yoshi's Island DS is a fun platformer with a unique crayon-inspired 
 visual style.     

  This new game picks up where the previous one left off. The evil wizard, Kamek, having already 
 been thwarted once by those insufferable Yoshis, kidnaps Baby Mario and Baby Luigi a second time, 
 along with all of the other babies in the world. Unfortunately for Kamek, a mishap between one 
 of his minions and a stork frees a handful of babies, depositing Baby Mario and Baby Peach smack 
 dab in the middle of the Yoshi village again. The stork informs the Yoshis that Kamek is up to 
 his old tricks. As they did the first time, the colorful dinosaurs decide to take turns hauling 
 the babies to Kamek's castle so that they can put the smack down and free the captive kiddies. 
 It's a hokey story, but it's cute. It also provides sufficient justification for why you can now 
 swap babies at the various stork stops that are situated within each level.  

  At its heart, Yoshi's Island DS is a run-and-jump platformer that is similar to Mario's own adventures. 
 The underlying gameplay involves making your way to the exit on the other side of the level, jumping 
 across gaps and pouncing on small enemies. The 50 different levels scattered across the game's 
 five worlds are lengthy, intricate, and visually interesting. You can also look forward to fighting 
 a gigantic boss in the middle of and at the end of each world. Yoshi has quite a unique set of 
 abilities. He can run and jump, of course, and you can make him perform a ground pound by pressing 
 down on the control pad after a jump. You can also make him flutter short distances by keeping 
 the jump button pressed. One way to get rid of enemies is to land on their backs. Or you can make 
 the tiny dino stick out his tongue and drag an enemy into his mouth. From there, you have the option 
 of spitting the creature back out, either at another enemy or at a switch. Or you can make the 
 dino swallow the enemy and turn it into an egg. Eggs are useful little projectiles that you can 
 launch at enemies or bounce off of walls to grab items and activate switches that you otherwise 
 couldn't reach. On top of all that, there are items in certain levels that transform Yoshi into 
 vehicles, such as a snub-nosed helicopter, a mole-shaped drilling machine, or a cute, blue submarine. 

           Each of the five babies gives Yoshi new abilities.     

  Throughout the game, Yoshi is constantly carrying one of the baby Nintendo characters on his back. 
 In the first game, this meant that you'd lose a life if Baby Mario was knocked off Yoshi's back 
 and not retrieved before timer ran out. In the sequel, there are five different babies to swap 
 among, and each baby gives Yoshi an extra subset of abilities. You start the game with Baby Mario 
 and Baby Peach, but it isn't long before Baby Donkey Kong, Baby Wario, and Baby Bowser are added 
 to the cast. Baby Mario can make invisible "M" blocks appear and gives Yoshi the ability to dash. 
 Baby Peach can use her parasol to send her and Yoshi flying on a gust of wind. Baby DK can grab 
 onto dangling vines and swing across ropes. Baby Wario can use his magnet to grab coins, as well 
 as drag metallic boxes and platforms around. Baby Bowser can spit fire to defeat enemies and melt 
 ice. Each baby also changes how Yoshi's egg projectiles work. For example, eggs fired with Mario 
 on the dino's back will ricochet off walls. Those launched with DK in tow, however, will explode 
 like bombs when they hit something.  

  Most levels are designed so that you have to switch babies at least a couple of times to reach 
 the exit. Many levels have optional spots where you can pick up some extra coins or stars by using 
 a specific baby to access an out-of-the-way spot. You'll also discover many secrets simply by going 
 back through a level with a baby you haven't brought before. A greater emphasis on exploration 
 is what all of the different babies really bring to Yoshi's Island DS, which wasn't evident in 
 the original game. The original Yoshi's Island had some sweet level designs that were oriented 
 around Yoshi's main abilities, but only a few actually made you work to get all of the flowers 
 and bonus coins. In Yoshi's Island DS, you have to swap babies frequently to collect all of the 
 flowers and coins that are necessary to earn a high grade for each level. At the same time, the 
 levels in Yoshi's Island DS are at least twice the size of those in the original game. They're 
 also absolutely massive compared to the short levels included in New Super Mario Bros.     

 
  Another interesting thing about Yoshi's Island DS is that it can be a very easy game or an extremely 
 difficult game, depending on what you attempt to accomplish during your time with it. It isn't 
 challenging in the traditional sense. In fact, falling into a bottomless pit or lava bed is about 
 the only way to lose a life outright. Whenever you do make contact with an enemy, Yoshi will merely 
 be stunned for a second, and the baby he's carrying will fly off of his back crying. The baby will 
 then float around in an energy bubble while a timer ticks down. If you don't retrieve the tot before 
 the timer expires, then you'll lose a life. This generally isn't a problem because the timer is 
 fairly generous. Although it isn't difficult to get through the levels, it is difficult to collect 
 all of the stars, red coins, character coins, and flowers scattered throughout each of them. These 
 items contribute to a grade that you're given at the end of each level. You need perfect grades 
 in all of the game's main levels to unlock all of the bonus levels and to see the extended ending 
 sequence. That's no easy undertaking. You lose stars when a baby is knocked lose; character coins 
 can only be grabbed by the character printed on them; and some red coins and flowers are only on 
 the screen for a few seconds before they float away. Getting all of these items in one pass through 
 a level requires a fair amount of practice. So for the completist, Yoshi's Island DS can be very 
 challenging indeed.  

           The horsepower of the DS allows even standard enemies to fill the screen.     

  How 
 long the game lasts is really up to you. Each of the game's five worlds has eight main levels. 
 If you just want to rush through and beat Kamek, the whole process can be done in about eight hours 
 or so. You may find yourself wanting to replay some of the more enjoyable levels and discover that 
 each world also has a bonus level, which becomes available after you finish the game the first 
 time. Completists will no doubt want to collect all of the stars, coins, and flowers in each world 
 to unlock the secret 10th level and witness the extended ending sequence. That endeavor can easily 
 consume 20 or 30 hours of time. You can also check out all of the creatures that you've encountered 
 in an island museum. And there's a minigame menu, which lets you play the five minigames from the 
 normal game in easy and hard variations. About the only thing that is not included is any sort 
 of multiplayer mode. That's a mild shame, but there's certainly more than enough single player 
 stuff here to keep you occupied for a long time.  

  No matter how long you play Yoshi's Island DS, your eyes and ears will probably be satisfied the 
 entire time. Many people fell in love with the original game's unique audio-visual style. The levels 
 and characters looked like they were drawn with crayons and felt markers. The music and sound effects 
 also tickled the listener's ear with flutes, xylophones, animal noises, and other whimsical jangles 
 that were not typically heard in video games. Yoshi's Island DS basically looks and sounds just 
 like the first game, although the system's horsepower has been used to beef up certain technical 
 aspects. You'll run into larger versions of some enemies; the transparency effect used to animate 
 the water looks much nicer; and cute little environmental touches, such as bouncing plants and 
 passing clouds, are more plentiful. The game doesn't make use of the system's touch-sensitive features 
 or do anything special regarding the two screens. Outside of a cool transition effect and a couple 
 of boss encounters, the extra screen is primarily just used to let you see more of the surrounding 
 environment.  

  Some sticklers may complain that the charcoal and crayon-style graphics in Yoshi's Island DS look 
 a little cleaner than they did in the original game. Specifically, the backgrounds aren't as cluttered, 
 and the black outlines aren't as thick. Depending on your personal preference, this is a stylistic 
 change that you'll either love or hate. The same can be said about the kindler, gentler music that 
 is featured in the game's soundtrack. It's the same tropical sort of stuff that was in the original, 
 but certain melodies and instruments are understated this time around.  

           Bosses are large and inventive.     

  Aside from the technical aspects, it's just 
 a joy to take in the game. All of the levels are tropical and happy. They are so happy that the 
 characters even seem pleased to be in them. Yoshi taps his feet while he walks and makes cute noises 
 when he jumps or bumps into things. Some enemies wink or make faces as they walk along. As it is, 
 many of those enemies are familiar faces that we know and love from the various Mario games. The 
 shy guys from Super Mario Bros. 2 and the crabs from Donkey Kong Jr. feature prominently, as well 
 as the Koopa Troopas, piranha plants, and giant Bullet Bills that have been present in every classic 
 Mario game. Boss battles increase the eye candy even further. Each world serves up two different 
 bosses, which are gigantic and often quite inventive. In one battle, for instance, the lower screen 
 is a mirror that reflects what's going on in the upper screen. You're on the upper screen, but 
 the boss is a large ghost that's only visible in the mirror on the lower screen. Each boss is a 
 whole new, fun experience. This is more than can be said for the flimsy bosses that Nintendo came 
 up with for New Super Mario Bros. earlier this year.  

  It's hard to top a masterpiece, but that's just what Nintendo and Artoon have done with Yoshi's 
 Island DS. By incorporating one major new feature and leaving everything else alone, they've produced 
 a sequel that seems fresh and new while remaining every bit as awesome as the original. If you 
 enjoy side-scrolling platformers, you have to play this one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (174 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sagax03
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  After all this time the mario formula works and thats no exception for yoshis island DS a fun platformer 
 that picks up from yoshis last horrible adventures like in touch and go and yoshis story on the 
 wii channel (N64 VERSION IS GOOD) Yoshis island DS is truly a nice mix of fun and clever innovative 
 gameplay.
  
  Story-The well i forget its name ill call it the magic koopa for now is trying to get all the baby 
 "Mario" characters for a reason but on his way, 2 of his minions drop baby mario and baby peach, 
 yoshi (Green one) then decides to meet up with the rest of the yoshis on yoshis island, they decide 
 to carry the babys to well to a safe area and keep them safe at all costs, later in the story yoshi 
 then also saves baby DK, and other babys like baby luigi, its a cute story to say the most, and 
 keeps that cute mario charm. It does feel predictable at times.
  A-Superb-9.0.
  
  Gameplay-This is where the last 2 games screwed up on, touch & go had horrible touch and yoshis 
 story for the wii just sucked! But Yoshi comes with a vengence to all his haters this time! He 
 is backed with babys like baby mario, peach, DK, and luigi (The rest i wont spoil for you guys) each 
 have there own special abilitys baby mario can hit certain blocks, baby peach can use her fancy 
 little umbrella to help yoshi go higher with the wind, and well the list gos on and on, to "Die" 
 in the game you have to get hit, then you will get a time limit to save your baby or else when 
 the time runs out the magic koopa comes down and steels the poor little baby and we dont want that 
 happening. As for the difficulty level it ranges from hard to easy it can get quite confusing for 
 one level which you easily cleared and the next took you about a hour after dieing so much, but 
 its good and to throw eggs all you have to do is (Im going to say the default controls) hold in 
 the B buutton there you can hold your egg and you can throw and some/something when you think the 
 time is right. Nothing about yoshis island feels like "It plays it self" yup everthing is as innovative 
 as it gets, except for the rare cutscenes which dont take a long time to pass. Its fun thats all 
 i can say.
  A-Superb-9.0.
  
  
  Graphics/Design-. Anyway the reason i didnt get this game was because of its graphics when i was 
 younger i thought they were wayy to kiddy i got yoshis story when i was a little kid form my grandma, 
 it was fun but yoshis island graphics are just amazing they are well polished and i really cant 
 see any "Flaws" in them.
  S-Perfect-10.10.
  
  
  Music/Sound-When you put your DS in "Sleep" mode yoshi will make this very annoying sound! but other 
 than that the music is catchey!
  A-Superb-9.0.
  
  Learning Curve-Doesnt take a long time to learn the games basics really it doesnt.
  
  
  Overall- 
 Well this is my fav. DS platformer of course its no super mario galaxy or sonic unleashed but it 
 definitly is great (Yes i think its better than super mario 64 DS, new super mario bros, and sonic 
 rush) . I consider picking this game up if you want a fats and on the go platforming expierince.
 
  A-Superb-9.5.
  Overall: Superb.
  
  
  Next Review: Legend of zelda: Phantom Hourglass
  Last Review: Sonic and the black knight.
  
  
  Know if you excuse me im going to play some 
 yoshis island DS know.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: qualbert
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This is truly a mignificent game...
  Nintendo hasnt used the touch screen abilities but they've really used the two screens to the best 
 of their ability. There's plenty of things to do after finishing the game, you can go back and 
 find all the secrets to unlock extra levels. The music perfectly suits the game (and the babies 
 also) . With 5 babies with 5 different abilities the levels can be finished in many different ways, 
 you'll find yourself backtracking over and over again. The levels are long fun with many different 
 enemies to encounter and the crayon drawn visuals make it look spectacular...
  
  However... i didn't like that there was only 5 levels compared to the other games 6 levels. Surely 
 Nintendo could've fit it in, we have 16Gb SD cards nowadays. Get with the times Nintendo.
  
  But if you liked the 1st one, this one is exactly like its predecessor, with tiny little bosses 
 vamped up to size by the evil Kamek.
  
  If you own a DS you MUST buy this game.
  (No i don't work for Nintendo and trying to promote the game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  fter the disappointing Yoshi's Story on the N64, the god-awful Universal Gravitation on the GBA 
 and the good-but-short Yoshi's Touch 'N' Go on the DS, finally we have a proper sequel to Yoshi's 
 Island - one of the greatest 2D platformers of all time. And it's every bit as great as the original.
 
  
  This is what we wanted - none of the baby-singing, melon-eating rubbish. This is what Yoshi's Island 
 is supposed to be like. You munch enemies and make eggs to lob at super-speed as you bounce through 
 level after level of platforming greatness. 
  
  The premise of the game, and the way it's played, remains much the same. A bunch of baby versions 
 of Mushroom Kingdom characters, including Baby Luigi and Baby Princess Peach, are kidnapped by 
 evil wizard Kamek and you, playing as Yoshi, help rescue them. Despite the similar story, however, 
 there are new gameplay elements to get to grips with. The main one of these is the fact that at 
 certain points in the game Yoshi will rescue other babies that can ride him, each baby having their 
 own special ability. 
  
  
  Baby Mario, the baby you start with, allows Yoshi to run faster; Baby Princess can use her umbrella 
 to ride streams of wind to reach higher places; Baby Donkey Kong will grab and climb vines; and 
 Baby Bowser can spit fireballs. You're able to find and change babies at certain points in the 
 levels, which adds a new puzzle element as you swap babies and use their powers to overcome some 
 occasionally tricky puzzles. 
  
  Walk The Dinosaur
  There have been some other, smaller tweaks to the gameplay, too. As well as the usual 20 red coins 
 and five flowers, each level contains one hidden giant coin that you can track down. What's more, 
 new character-specific item blocks can only be hit when Yoshi is carrying a certain baby (so red 
 'M' blocks can only be hit by Baby Mario, for instance) . 
  
  The game also makes use of the extended view of the DS's two screens, allowing you to hold X and 
 press up or down to shift Yoshi to either screen, expanding your view in the direction of your 
 choice. You'll find many potentially off-screen secrets by exploring with this feature, and while 
 it doesn't literally double the lifespan of the game, it does give you lots more to do. 
  
  But we have to say that the similarities between Yoshi's Island DS and the SNES original far outweigh 
 the changes. This new outing seems to intentionally emulate the first game in almost every way 
 possible; it's almost like you're playing a remake or remixed version of the same game rather than 
 a sequel. The intro sequence, where all the Yoshis meet and decide to help the babies, looks almost 
 exactly the same. The end-of-level 'GOAL' screens are identical, as are the bonus stages and most 
 of the menus, including the 3D rotating island in the title screen.
  
  
  
  More significantly, the art style, much of the level design, music style and most of the puzzles 
 stick closely to what was in the original, too. This means that while Yoshi's Island DS retains 
 the quality and ingenious gameplay that made the SNES game an all-time classic, it won't offer 
 much freshness to those who've finished the original. 
  
  It's not that Yoshi's Island DS isn't fantastic, because it is. But it lacks that surprise appeal. 
 Yoshi's Island on the SNES constantly surprised you - from the first time you saw a door in the 
 apparently 2D background become 3D and slam down on top of you, to the moment when Yoshi is swallowed 
 by a frog and has to fight inside the its stomach. 
  
  You're Prehistory
  With its relentless mimicking of everything in the original game, the DS version lacks any sense 
 of surprise. And despite the boost in technology on the DS, the levels don't seem as fluid. In 
 the old game, log bridges bent under Yoshi's weight at the point of contact, for instance.
  
  If you were expecting a fully fledged sequel that alters and improves on the original, this 
 is not what you're after. On the other hand, if you adored the previous game and just want a trip 
 down memory lane, the 'more of the same' approach taken by Yoshi's Island DS will satisfy. And 
 of course, if you never played the original you'll love exploring this game for the first time 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LK9988
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  Good Stuff:
  .Having 5 babies instead of one baby and each with special abilities!
  .It still keeps the crayon-inspired graphics of the first one but better.
  .The museum is a nice 
 addition.
  .A much more better storyline.
  .Better and less linear levels then the first one.
  .Imaginative bosses.
  .Uses both of the 
 DS's screens.
  
  Bad Stuff:
  .Missing some stuff the first one had like the map.
  .Lack of multiplayer.
  .Some of the level themes in the first one were better.
  
  The main 
 thing that makes this game better then the first is that you have 5 babies instead of one! Baby 
 Mario can make red blocks visible and make Yoshi dash, Baby Peach Uses her parasol to help Yoshi 
 over gaps, Baby DK can make you swing and climb across vines and other stuff, Baby Wario uses his 
 magnet to help you collect coins and other stuff and Baby Bowser uses his flame breath to melt 
 ice and burn enemies!
  
  Another good thing is that It uses the two DS screens to make it even better! The two screens are 
 used like the 2 screens in sonic rush. You don't actually use the touch pen much, but when you 
 get higher up your on the top screen and when your lower down your on the touch screen. 
  
  The museum is a nice addition to the mix too. In the museum, you can look at all the enemies you 
 have fought against so far. It eventually gets all the enemies into the museum once you have fought 
 them all, so that's one of the games challenges!
  
  The bosses on this game are highly imaginative and fun to beat. Like forr example one of the bosses 
 the touch screen is a mirror and the boss is only visible there. You have to move Yoshi around 
 untill your next to the boss visible at the mirror then you have to hit it! 
  
  Although with all of this game's good things there are a coulple of bad things. 
  
  The map 
 in the first yoshi island which I liked isn't there anymore and it has no multiplayer options with 
 it. They could of at least used multiplayer for the minigames maybe a 2 player battle mode and 
 maybe even co-op!
  
  Here's the summing up:
  
  Graphics: The graphics dares not go far from the graphics of it's predesesscor It's just improved 
 on the crayon-styled graphics even more! 10/10
  
  Story: Instead of just kidnapping Baby Mario and Baby Luigi, Kamek is stealing babies all around 
 the world for ultimate power! Kamek drops 5 of her kidnapped babies by accident though and they 
 all fall down into different places of Yoshi's island. Baby Mario lands onto Yoshi's back and then 
 they set out on their second quest to save all the babies! 9/10
  
  Sound&Music: The sound effects and music in this game are better then ever before! 9/10
  
  
 Gameplay: The gameplay is still a side-scrolling platformer like the first one but it has some 
 major improvments like the babie's skills and the levels aren't as linear and are quite a challenge 
 too! 9.5/10
  
  Overall: As one of the best platformers ever, this game is reccommended for any Mario, Yoshi or 
 platformer game fan! 9/10 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: niels200683
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  When I first booted the title, I felt instant nostalgia.
  
  This game takes an old suger-frosted classic, dips chocolate on it - and tastes very sweet indeed.
 
  
  The controls are superb, the level design is excellent. There are a ton of secrets to discover 
 in each level - and just when it starts to become repetitive, something new is encountered.
  
  The game shines when it comes to diversity, either yoshi changes to a vehicle, or a new baby 
 becomes available for use.
  
  Although it is a great game, it can become very tedious to backtrack and get the right baby for 
 the job. The story itself is just a little too happy (as are the graphics) , and the advantages 
 of the DS are not really used. It could easily have been a gameboy advance title - but it is a 
 great game nonetheless.
  
  And of course, it is always fun to kick bowsers behind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostofluigi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game for 2 minutes and I never put it down! The way the makers of the game 
 worked the gameplay onto both screens of the DS was just amazing. THe other good thing about the 
 gameplay was it's platforming. Climbing and swinging on vines, making eggs out of monsters and throwing 
 the eggs at targets and other monsters. Storyline was also very well done, the way they work the 
 babies into the story was near perfect. Another fun thing are the babies. Baby Mario, Baby Peach, Baby 
 D. K, Baby Wario, and Baby Bowser. I mean you can't get a much better selection of characters then 
 that. The cartoony graphics and original music make you almost want to yell "WHOOP-EEE"! 
  
  My only problem was that I had to pull my hair out and get the buttons to leave imprints on my 
 thumb on how frustrating the levels were. I just found them so infuriating because I had to do the 
 same part over and over because the makers didn't place the save points very brightly. Another 
 thing was the way you got extra lives. I mean spin a wheel to see if you get one. I think they 
 should have just made us collect them but place them in hard spots.
  
  To conclude, Yoshi's Island Ds is very frustrating but it never leaves you too frustrated to make 
 you give up on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haloboy10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  An amazing return for the Yoshi's Island series this game is and update of the classic game every 
 level you complete you get a different color Yoshi and you can swap babies in levels when you find 
 a stork stop you can play as Baby Mario/Baby Peach/Baby DK and Baby Bowser all have a special unique 
 skill Baby Mario can Dash Baby Peach can use her parasol to get caught in cross winds to get to 
 higher areas Baby DK can grab hold of branches to get over dangerous areas Baby Bowser can breath 
 fire. The story starts where Kamek makes an evil plan to kidnap all babies he sets out from a mysterious 
 castle in the sky with his minions the toadies they kidnap baby Mario and Baby Luigi/Baby Peach 
 and Baby DK but a stork comes by and sets Baby Mario and Baby Peach free Yoshi is taking a stroll 
 and Baby Mario flies down later the stork appears at the meeting of he Yoshi's to decide who gets 
 which baby with a bag in the bag is Baby Peach. Yoshi go out with Baby Mario to recover the missing 
 babies.
  This is a great enjoyable game to play you'll find it hard to resist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheesecakeMania
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to lie, Yoshi's Island DS is a good game, but it doesn't pass
  its predecessor, Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island.
  It has a good story, the graphics look 
 a bit better, and switching between
  each babies' abilities is a neat idea for a sequel.
  However, the game is shorter than the original Yoshi's Island -- there are
  now only five worlds. 
 What makes the game FEEL longer are the cutscenes.
  If you just skip through them, the game is really short.
  Another problem is that Yoshi sometimes 
 doesn't get the message that
  you're pressing in the opposite direction to turn around. It's not too much
  of a problem, but 
 that never occurred in the original.
  The music also seems to be less enthusiastic as its predecessor. The
  music in the first level, 
 for example, seems a bit too mellow. In the original,
  the music was happy-go-lucky, making me want to skip down a meadow
  of daisies, humming the music 
 all the while. The boss levels, too, lack
  energy. Remember the boss battles of the original Yoshi's Island? It kind
  of sounded like a 
 hyped up ball game. It felt like it, too, seeing as how Yoshi
  seemed like the pitcher throwing his eggs at Burt The Bashful.
  And, last but not least, the 
 lack of an inventory. What happened here!? Now
  that Yoshi has no inventory, he can't use an extra supply of eggs, a POW
  block, an extra 10-20 
 stars, or those whacked out watermelons! Not only
  that, but since he doesn't have an inventory, bonus levels at the end of each
  stage are merely 
 for extra lives. As if I can't get enough of those during a
  level!
  All in all, Yoshi's Island is a decent game. Though it isn't as great as its
  predecessor, it'll 
 still be a game worth playing years from now. If only the
  inventory wasn't scrapped, the game would've been even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leeman911
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Yoshis island ds brings the popular seris to the ds and its great. It has great 2d graphics and 
 good controls with solid music. You play as yoshi and you can eat enemys to get eggs and you carry 
 ethier mario, peach, donkey kong, wario, or bowzer in baby form. It has alot of worlds and theres 8 
 levels to a world and im in world 4 as of today and it is addicting as **** and you can trow the 
 eggs from eating enemys at enemys who are out of reach or to get flowers and coins. So all in all 
 this is a must have ds game for yoshi fans like me. Which I got it used for 25$ wich is a good deal 
 so ds gammers get ready for a treat. ooooo ooooo ooo oooo oooo oooo oooooo ooooo ooooo oooo oooo 
 ooo oooo ooo oooo ooo ooo ooooo oooo oooo oooo ooo ooo oooooo oooo ooo ooooo ooo oo oooooo oooooo 
 ooo ooo oooooo oooo ooooo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperDarkFaqer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  A great game, that if you are a Mario fun, you shouldn't lose. With most good things, Yoshi's Island 
 DS is an enjoyable great game. 
  The Good things:
  Incredible Graphics:9.5/10! The plot is also great: 9.1/10. About the music, it is the best in this 
 game!10/10! It has also some minigames, worth to play! And at last the bosses are great fun to battle. Which 
 makes the game even more interesting to play! It has also got great 2d graphics and colourful stages, that 
 encourage the player to play. It is also match to children. 
  The Bad Things:
  There are only 4 babies to carry. The game is quite big, but if you are a very big fan and you play 
 with hours, you won't need more than 2-3 days. It is hard to unlock the minigames and collect the 
 Character Coins too. Unfortunately, it has not multiplayer. 
  To sum up, this game is for 9.3! It is good to play. Don't lose if you have DS or you are a great 
 mario fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thicknick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I like everything about this game that I liked about Yoshi's Island for the SNES. The only real 
 difference is there are new babies all with different abilities. Mario can smash red M blocks, 
 Peach can fly, DK can swing on vines, etc.
  
  The game is a quick breeze through in your spare time, if you've got any. I did about one world 
 per day for a week and it finished the game rather swiftly. I do not have 100% completion in this 
 one, like I did in the original, because I'm graduating college soon and I just don't have the 
 time to waste, or the patience I once had.
  
  Overall there's nothing wrong with this game. Graphics are pretty and definitely a bit cleaned. 
 Controls are slick and solid. Story is what you'll expect from such a title. All-in-all, an amazing 
 side-scroller/platformer.
  
  My only critique is that there could've been more depth added, but that's a petty complaint.
 
  
  I'm giving this game a 9.5 because it's great. The other .5 is lost because it could've been greater. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revil_pm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Love this game. Once you master the controls- like swallowing enemies to produce eggs, and the 
 subsequent aiming and shooting of said eggs, you unlock the games true potential. Could imagine 
 it was a little difficult and frustrating to some, but again that's just a matter of practicing, 
 mastering, and using your eggs, the different characteristics that Yoshi acquires depending on 
 who is her rider, and Yoshi's jumping ability in an imaginative way. Once i did that, i couldn't 
 put it down. Completing most levels wasn't terribly difficult, but going for the optional stars, 
 red coins, and flowers increased the replay factor of this game exponentially. A must have, especially 
 if you liked new super mario bros. The levels were varied, had superb graphics, and used vivid, 
 eye-popping colors. Truly a must have have for anyone who wants a solid portfolio of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NovaScizor75
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  This game, much like the original Yoshi's Island, has truly charming graphics and sound, as well 
 as superb gameplay. Basically the same graphics from SMW2, except much more polished than the original. 
 They still look like they were all drawn with crayons, though more detail has been added to the 
 characters and levels. The sound is very light-hearted and breezy, it really suits the atmosphere. 
 Add that to the graphics, and the game will definitely grow on you. The gameplay has also been 
 virtually unchanged from it's prequel (that's not a bad thing though) . You still run, jump, shoot 
 eggs, and swallow enemies. This time around, instead of carrying just baby Mario, you can also 
 carry baby Peach, baby Donkey Kong, baby Wario, and even baby Bowser. Each of these babies has 
 their own special ability; Wario has a coin magnet, Bowser spews fireballs, etc. Though you can 
 beat the game relatively easily, completing it 100% will keep you busy for a much longer time. 
 The level selection is 50 strong and almost every one is so entertaining you'll want to come back 
 and play it over again. There are the main platforming levels, but there are also 3 secret levels 
 per world which are unlocked by completing the stages 100%. The one downer in this game is no multiplayer, 
 but this still doesn't take away from the game's fun factor. In short, it improves on almost every 
 aspect of the original. With it's charming graphics, music, perfected gameplay formula, controls, 
 and length, Yoshi's Island DS is one of the best platformers in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4EverGreen
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  I don't see how anyone could NOT like this game, the graphics are very beautiful! Not only does 
 the hand-drawn artwork of the original "Yoshi's Island" returns, it's now on two screen and "Yoshi's 
 Island 2" makes very good use of those two screens in terms of showing enemies and hidden items. 
 Baby Mario is back again (and thankfully, this time much less noisy! :idea: ) Only this time, he's 
 brought along a few friends along for the ride. Baby Peach proves that she doesn't need Mario to 
 protect her all the time. She can handle herself and use her umbrella to float from place to place 
 and reach heights that no one else can reach! Baby Donkey Kong proves that even as a tyke, he was 
 the King of Swing, as he can grab onto vines as no one else can (because no one else can) he's 
 the only one that can swing on ropes, and his fists of fury can break things that no other baby 
 can break! And even as an infant, all Baby Wario could think about was money. He uses his magnet 
 to attract metallic platforms which can get him to secret places, and brings all the coins towards 
 him and makes him very rich indeed! Finally, even Baby Bowser joins the team as in a real twist, 
 Adult Bowser has come from the future to do what his younger self could not and capture the heroic 
 infants once and for all! But Baby Bowser realizes the problem that Adult Bowser is setting up. 
 If Adult Bowser succeeds in stopping Mario in the past (Baby Bowser's present) then Bowser won't 
 grow up to have a potentially glorious future (Adult Bowser's present.) So Baby Boswer uses his 
 spiky shell spinning abilities to make certain platforms move, deflect deadly projectiles, enemies, 
 and even though Yoshi can't lay eggs with Baby Bowser, Baby Bowser can breathe fire and melt ice 
 and defeat enemies with ease (even if its not for purely altruistic reasons.) All of the babies 
 skills are needed to reach different areas and Yoshi will once again sometimes transform into different 
 vehicles depending on the situations he is sometimes in. The levels are once again designed brillantly 
 that has a par which few other games can reach. The bosses are once again created to provide a 
 challenge and different ways that they have to be beat in order to prevail in saving both the babies 
 present, and the babies future! It's an enriching, unique platform game filled with good music, 
 great controls, and many different ways of having fun in this engrossing game. I thoroughly enjoyed 
 it, and that's why I wrote this review! :idea: Enough said! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultima_weapon05
Rating: 7
Date: May 31, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  If it's too long, there's a summary at the end of the review.
  
  Way back when on the Super Nintendo, Nintendo released an unlikely sequel to the smash hit Super 
 Mario World. This sequel involved Yoshi, the green, egg-spitting reptilian carrying baby Mario 
 on his back and firing eggs at all sorts of targets. Even when it said goodbye to the more traditional 
 Mario platforming format, Yoshi's Island was still an incredible game. Its vibrancy and charm captured 
 the attention of many gamers and quickly became the classic we know today.
  
  In 2006, almost 11 years after Yoshi's Island, Nintendo released a sequel called Yoshi's Island 
 DS. With Artoon at the helm of development, who had previously developed Yoshi Topsy Turvy, would 
 they be capable of crafting a sequel to a renowned masterpiece? Here is my honest review.
  
  Gamers who played through the original Yoshi's Island will most likely be quite familiar with 
 its basic plot. Yoshi's Island DS follows the same premise as the original, after Kamek, a nefarious 
 Magikoopa attempts to steal babies across the world. One day, baby Mario falls from the sky and 
 lands straight on Yoshi's back (again) and after a quick chat with the other Yoshis, they all prepare 
 to rescue the babies once again. It's a simple plot and just like the original, it works well enough 
 for the game.
  
  As you play through Yoshi's Island DS, you'll come to rescue several of these babies. Without spoiling 
 the game, it wouldn't be too difficult to guess who those new babies might be. Either way, they 
 end up being playable, meaning you'll have multiple babies to choose from and they can be switched 
 at selected points in each stage. While the concept of having multiple babies is a great idea, 
 it never feels executed well enough. The reason the original was so fun was because you didn't 
 have to stop repeatedly throughout a stage to toggle through about 6 different babies. If it was 
 easier to switch between babies, it may have been an acceptable feature in the game, but it just 
 ends up slowing the pace of the game down.
  
  Even so, having multiple characters to use really helps to open up the gameplay to a whole new 
 degree. Puzzles now have more depth and the level structure really requires you to think about 
 what baby would be the best choice, especially if you're a completist going after the extra collectibles.
 
  
  Yoshi's Island DS works like so: you can swallow and devour most enemies and turn them into eggs. 
 You can carry up to 6 eggs at once, all of which follow you as you explore the various stages. 
 You can use these eggs to throw at larger enemies, boss fights and random targets. As you make 
 your way through a stage, you'll come across stars. Stars increase your star count to a maximum 
 of 30 points. If you get hurt, the baby on your back will fall off and float around in the air 
 and wait for you to rescue it as your star count gradually depletes. If your stars reach zero, 
 Kamek's minions will fly down and take the baby away, causing you to lose a life.
  
  While the core gameplay of Yoshi's Island DS is acceptable as a stand-alone platformer, it really 
 doesn't size up to the originals solid controls. Movement generally feels slower and clunky, while 
 large jumps feel sluggish. If you intend to jump up onto a higher platform, the hit boxes are completely 
 off, so you'll sometimes struggle to get on top of it. While it may sound like a trivial complaint, 
 gamers who played the original will miss the no-nonsense gameplay mechanics. It's a disappointment 
 really, considering how a simple control scheme can be changed into a frustrating one.
  
  Another big gripe is aimed at the double screens. The stages will be split into 2, meaning you'll 
 often have a hard time getting your aim correct when shooting at the top screen. It's a shame that 
 a game of skill has been turned upside down into a luck-fest. Again, this is another prime example 
 of how the gameplay in Yoshi's Island DS has been slowed down. You'll often waste most of your 
 eggs because the angles are difficult to calculate on the top screen, meaning you'll be wasting 
 time and valuable eggs.
  
  The presentation is mostly the same as the original (which is good) . The way the stages are structured 
 is mostly similar to those seen in the original game. There are some pretty fun new obstacles spread 
 throughout the game, with the exception of Wario's magnet platforms, which are often a pain to 
 overcome.
  
  Graphics are fresh and stylish, with a "crayon" effect in a lot of the games stages. It's a great, 
 cartoony sort of look that was also present in the Super Nintendo game. This time is doesn't have 
 the same impact as the original, but it still passes as an attractive game even if the graphics 
 aren't on par with other DS games.
  
  The sounds may be a problem for some. Expect the loud shrills of crying babies if you get hit a 
 lot, which will undoubtedly irritate some people. The soundtrack is generally not as memorable 
 as the original, but none of the music got on my nerves during my play through so there's no reason 
 for me to complain about it.
  
  Overall, Yoshi's Island DS can be considered somewhat as a letdown when stood next to the original. 
 It's gameplay has become a tangled web of ideas that just end up spoiling the best parts of the 
 game. What used to be a simple, phenomenal platformer is now a messy, average one. Chances are 
 people who haven't played the original won't see much wrong with this. If that's the case, go ahead 
 and enjoy it. But for fans of the Super Nintendo's stunning success, you'll only find irritation 
 and eventually the thoughts of what could have been.
  
  Summary:
  
  PROS
  - Beautifully presented designs
  - Interesting puzzles
  - Plenty of stages to play though
 
  
  CONS
  - Vital gameplay mechanics are slightly flawed
  - Top screen just ends up getting in the way
  - Baby-switching system is slow and tedious
  
 - Boss fights are uninspired compared to original
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArcticYoshi77
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  When I first got Yoshi's Island DS I was afraid that it would be completely different from the 
 original, that it would be a complete flop. After just a few minutes playing almost all my worries 
 where crushed. Almost.
  
  - Gameplay -
  The game plays just like the first Yoshi's Island, with your basic flutter jumps and egg tossing, 
 fooling you into thinking that it's just going to be completely the same, but early on in the game 
 it throws its selling point at you: baby switching. By going up to one of the many sign posts in 
 the levels, you can call on your pal the stork, and he'll fly up to you letting you choose which 
 baby you want to play as. Each baby has its own advantages and disadvantages, like baby Mario making 
 you run faster at the press of a button, or baby Peach allowing you to float on gusts of wind with 
 her umbrella, letting you reach previously un-accessable areas. This adds a small sense of strategy, 
 picking the right baby to get through the path in front of you the fastest, easiest or most score 
 increasing way. This is all fun but it's a shame that there is no real use of the DS's capabilities, 
 using just the dual screens instead of any egg throwing touch-screen action, but it's a small point.
 
  
  //- 8/10 -\\
  
  - Sound - 
  The sounds of the game are mostly recycled from previous Mario and Yoshi titles, which isn't a 
 bad thing, since the 'bading' of collecting a coin is still as satisfying as ever, but the music 
 and baby noises are the low point. The music, while not terrible, isn't anything memorable like 
 the songs in YI and you'll probably be paying any notice to them by the end of the game. But it's 
 the babies that are the worst bit of the game. Losing a baby is twice as annoying as before, not 
 only because you'll probably be scrambling after with just seconds away from them being snatched 
 away, fighting your way through sometimes extremely annoying enemies, but because of their high-pitched 
 shreiks ( with the worst, in my opinion, being baby Peach's ) that will make you run to get them 
 just to shut them up.
  
  //- 6/10 -\\
  
  - Graphics -
  Yoshi's Island DS has the same cartoony style as it's predecessor, but it has had its cuteness 
 upped. The stages are as beautiful and memorable as ever, and almost all the characters have been 
 remodeled for the better, most of the time, and because of the DS's superior technology, there 
 are now 3D bits scattered all over the place, the most significant being the rotating island at 
 the press start screen. Everything as also been smoothed out significantly, making it look much 
 smoother than the pixel-fest that was Yoshi's Island, and the animations are also smoother.
  
  //- 8.5/10 -\\
  
  - Replayability -
  Just like Yoshi's Island before it, the game will 
 have you coming back all the time trying to get that last 100%, getting all the minigames, getting 
 the high score and going through all the possible paths in the levels using different babies. It 
 is, like almost all Nintendo games, very addictive.
  
  //- 9.5 -\\
  
  - Conclusion -
  Most of the time sequels completely fail, but surprisingly this game is very good. While the sound 
 and music isn't all that great, the gameplay, graphics and replayability make this game instantly 
 reccomendable.
  
  //- 9/10 -\\ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I realy don't know what it is about the game that I didn't like. The game in itself is realy realy 
 good. The visuals are peppy and happy looking, but didn't realy impress me. The controls are good 
 enough. But I found it realy hard to make your eggs go where you want them to go. And when you 
 shoot an egg it makes you stay still to aim. Which leaves you wide open for damage. And if you 
 get hit, the baby on your back will start to cry and bounce around the level which is realy realy 
 annoying to have to track down the baby every-time you get hit, I would have much rather had a 
 health bar or something. The game had an all around monotnous feel to it. It just wasn't fun, and 
 the level disign didn't flow at all. There isn't anything specificly "WRONG" with the game it's 
 just there are soooooo meny small things that just made the game make me not want to play the next 
 level. I realy had to make myself play the game. because I heard soo meny geat things about it, 
 but I don't see what is sooo great about it. The game is pretty lengthy, incase you do like it 
 there are plenty of things to do. I hope you can find the fun, because I couldn't. Also nothing 
 realy stood out in the way of being unique at all. Rent it, if you like it then buy it, if you 
 don't like it, then your like me. I'm going to give it an 8.0 because I seem to be among a very 
 few people who didn't like the game, so I think most of the problems I have with the game were 
 just my personal problems with the game. Most people enjoy the game, so read some other reviews 
 before deciding to forget this game, I'm just one opinion.
  
  
  Good: The visuals are colorful.
  The controls are mostly fine.
  It's a lengthy game. (if you 
 like it enough to finish it)
  
  Bad: controling eggs is annoying.
  Nothing "fresh"
  Monotinous.
  Baby-crying is annoying.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicaz70
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I just recently played Yoshi's Island on the DS, and overall the game was great. I can't stress 
 enough how excellent the art style is and the color's look FANTASTIC on a DS Lite. But the game 
 still has some flaws, namely the difficulty. The story, well, it doesn't matter much, all the babies 
 get captured and you must get them back, starting with just Mario. Each baby doesn't really affect 
 gameplay much other than they may be able to access certain area's of level's other babies can't. 
 The controls are super tight and you never feel cheated when you die (If you EVER die, I'll get 
 to that soon...) as all Nintendo platformers usually do. So why is this game not getting a 9.5 
 from me? It's because the difficulty feels so unatural, I think I died once throughout the whole 
 game if I just tried to go through a level, which makes it somewhat boring if you play it more 
 than two hours at a time. But then if you try to get a perfect file, well, good luck, some of the 
 coins and flowers you have to get are so freakin' hard I think I slammed my DS screen shut once 
 (I never get mad at games, other than some RGP's :P) . So your in a bit of a rut when you want to 
 get more out of the game if you went through not going for the extras, and you'll have a hell of 
 a hard time getting through the game if you want all the extra's. Overall I'd suggest a rental 
 or borrow it from a friend, the game is to short/easy not getting the extra's, and I doubt you'll 
 be getting all the extra's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincessYoshi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  First to start with, this is my first review, so bear with me:) .
  The Good:
  Simple levels, Smooth gameplay, you will want to play levels again (and again and again) Good graphics, 
 Not too hard nor easy, I love the music ( It blends into the background, I have also recorded it 
 for future enjoyment.;) } Middle rings are helpful, but not too many so that it is not toooo easy.
 
  The Bad:
  Some people may not be huge fans of the Music (As I have mentioned, I love the 
  music) , Graphics and the inability to tear away from it to shut the DS when Mum
  comes checking 
 for DS at night ( the times I have been banned for a month!) . Nigh impossible to get a perfect score.
 
  
  I cannot give this game praise enough, My Brother and I have spent many joyful hours playing and 
 replaying the levels. Though we did get stuck on Up The Creek 
  3-1, Teeth Chattering Chill Zone 4-7 and Rompin' Stompin' Chomps 5-1. I like the 1st version the 
 best though, this has only 5 worlds and the GBA has 6. I hope that they have yet another sequel. 
 It was worth the $60.00 I paid for it!:)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: V-Dunstan
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  This review is coming from a person that has had no previous experience with any yoshi's island 
 game. I think this game is quite dull in terms of gameplay. It has simple controls with no challenge 
 whatsoever. You will never be stuck on this game. it has a crappy little storyline, which barely 
 develops and is extremely uninformative. The presentation is so ugly, and I do understand that 
 this is faithful to it's predecesors, but even so, it brought me to tears the first time i saw 
 it. On the positive side I found the music to be pretty decent and in no way repetitive. I also 
 found that it had some replayability just for the secret unlockable levels and basic minigames. 
 I really disliked this game and it will put me off platformers for a while. I strongly recommend 
 looking into this thoroughly if you are considering buying even though anyone who is reading this 
 review has already done so. Final Comments: Nice Tunes, Keeps you playing, Crappy presentation, 
 tiresome controls and general gameplay, and a dodgy storyline 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshicon8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is almost perfect and extremely fun. In this game Kamek wants to take the babies again. 
 So he takes them all, but Baby Mario falls back down to the Island, Yoshi's Island, and the Yoshi's 
 notice that he looks the same and have seen him before. And all of the babies are kidnapped and 
 they have to save them. So Yoshi and Baby Mario venture high and low to the edges of the world, 
 to find the other babies: Mario, Peach, DK, Wario (only in a few levels) , and Bowser (also only 
 in a few levels) . My personal favorite Baby is Bowser, because he can kill almost any enemy in 
 one shot and bosses in 4 - 5 hits. The babies powers are, Mario: Hold down X to dash, Peach: Double 
 jump to float in the air with her umbrella, DK: Swing on vines, and Wario: Stick to metal objects 
 with his magnet and also get coins with his magnet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mewmaster93
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of how this game one I was excited to play it. When I started playing I found 
 this was an easy to pick up game (Mainly due to my knowledge of the first game)
  
  The story is kinda easy to follow. Kamek is kidnapping babies for Future Bowser, who wants the stars 
 inside 8 of them so he can gain ultimate power, the only babies that are saved are Mario and Peach. Mario 
 lands on Yoshi and so the adventure begins again.
  
  This game uses both screens on the DS so you shouldn't have to worry about guessing. The controls 
 are easy to use as they haven't changed since the last game. Later in the game you are accompanied 
 by Baby DK, Baby Wario and Baby Bowser? (It will become clear if you play the game later)
  
  The game is very easy at first, though you WILL find yourself coming back to previous levels with 
 the right babies to collect everything. However the Secret levels and World 5 will make you want 
 to tear your hair out and eat it.
  
  All in all this game is almost as good as the Prequel, there are even some minigames and a Time 
 Trial mode. But if you want an easy platformer don't but this game. Only buy it if you are a true 
 platformer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnreaLuigi
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This game has solid controls and levels are colorful and fun to play. A problem would be how the 
 difficulty does not rev up gradually, but near the end it all of a sudden gets extremely difficult, 
 especially the secret levels. This is a common thing with Mario related platformers though, and 
 should not affect much of the fun involved. Nothing revolutionary here with a few new baby characters 
 and collectibles, but it keeps the same great aspects of the original Snes version nicely. With 
 all of the new collectibles and characters, it gives this game long replayability, which is always 
 a plus to have in a game. The visuals in the game are not as good as the "chalky" visuals of its 
 predecessor, but is still satisfying to look at with all of its colors. Overall though, it is a 
 highly recommendable platformer for the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy92
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Lazy Review of Yoshi's Island DS
  
  Bowser strikes back on the babies and Yoshi have to save the world along with Mario again. This 
 time there are several kinds of babies to have on the back. The game features the same controls, 
 
  items and graphic as the original game had.
  
  Cons:
  
  - No "touch fuzzy, get dizzy"
  - Short - only 5 worlds
  - Musical score sucked - once you turn 
 your DS off, you won't remember any song from the game.
  - New sound effects isn't really impressive
  - No depth in the characters. Every baby just has 
 a couple of specialities, it's mostly frustrating to change babies all the time.
  
  Pros:
  
  + The transformation is back.
  + Plenty of unlockable content
  + Easy if you just 
 want to play through but really had if you're going for the 100%
  + The graphics are very artistic
  
  
  This game is a big letdown. Go play the original and 
 if you still want do try this game out - make sure to rent it! It has a solid gameplay but the 
 overall quality is lower than the original.
  
  Actual Score: 7.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littledragonman
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  for those whp have played super mario world 2 yoshi's island this game is for you.
  
  personally smw2 is my most loved game, i've loved it since i first played it in 1997
  
  when 
 i first find out YS DS was comin out i just HAD TO HAVE IT.
  
  i am going to give you four good reasons to pick up this gem if you own a ds.
  
  let's start 
 with the graphics.
  
  the graphics have a usual yoshi's island style, chalk pastel, beautiful and vivid colors kinda look.
 
  
  some of the enemies such as shy guy, tap taps, bandits and so on
  have had some minor tweeks (hardly noticable though) 
  and the new yoshi look (kinda) looks good.
 
  
  now let's talk about storyline
  
  ok the story line is the same old marioesqe style 
  you gotta save baby luigi again........ ok 
 you know what i'm a huge mario fan
  but i'm getting tired of saving the same person over and over, any way
  i like the new additons 
 of baby peach, dk, bowser, and wario (not much a fan of the little fatso) 
  
  the brand new bosses i find very amusing lol a giant fat goonie XD
  and as you get further they 
 get harder.
  now lets talk gameplay
  
  the one thing that dissapointed me was the length of the game 5 worlds? why not six?
  
  but 
 i degress.......
  
  the controls of this game are pretty good ,if you played the first you 
  may find them similar:)
 
  
  some of the challenges of this game are very trick ohh you want an example do ya? k
  
  how bout running for the giant ass tap tap thing hm? (i've never been good at those)
  
  overall 
 this game is awesome of course as my titile says "i liked number one better"
  
  and that's it
  
  as for my next review it'll be a sports game, which one ummm how bout shaq-fu? 
 not a sports game you say? oh right it's jus a pile of crap
  
  but seriously though it 'll most likley be ethier mlb 07 the show or nba 08 the life
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentCH
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  In May 2006, a sequel was announced for Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, one of the greatest 
 platformers on the SNES. However, it was being developed by Artoon, which killed most of the joy 
 of the announcement. Artoon, as you may or may not know, was responsible for the... less-than-good 
 Yoshi Topsy-Turvy. But if Fuse Games could redeem themselves for making Mario Pinball Land by making 
 Metroid Prime Pinball, I was hoping that Artoon could do the same here.
  
  I should learn not to hope.
  
  At first, the game feels like a welcome trip down memory lane, 
 as it plays much like the original: The same hopping, bopping, baddie-eating, egg-throwing action, 
 the oversized boss-battles, the same cutesy coloring book environments that fit the game so well. 
 It's nice to see that Artoon didn't try to fix what wasn't broke as far as these were concerned.
 
  
  However, the DS should be able to do special effects better than the SNES, shouldn't it? Well, 
 it's not happening here. There's no polygonal stuff (like the tumbler platforms in the original's 
 castles) , Kamek's boss spells lack any special effects... On the other hand, Yoshi's transformation 
 sequence into vehicles in some levels actually looks better, and is conveniently brief compared 
 to in the original. The audio suffers even more than the special effects. The sound effects are 
 distorted and the music is weak and not memorable at all. There's seriously no excuse for this.
 
  
  The game's big draw is the baby-switching system. There are 5 baby sidekicks Yoshi can carry around, 
 each giving Yoshi different abilities. Mario lets Yoshi run faster and can hit special M blocks, 
 while Peach has a parasol to catch strong winds and reach new heights. DK can climb and swing on 
 vines, and Wario has a magnet to attract coins and other metal objects. Bowser (it's not a spoiler, 
 it's on the box art) can breathe fire, which has unlimited ammo, unlike the eggs. Because of the 
 specificity of these skills, though, it becomes obvious who you need and what you need to do during 
 the levels. Heavy wind? Get Peach. Metal blocks in the way? Get Wario. Part of the problem with 
 the level designs is that they start to become the same baby-related puzzles over and over again.
 
  
  The other problem is that much of the rest of the levels consist of exercises in frustration. It's 
 only natural that a game should become more difficult as you get closer to the end, but this game 
 overdoes it. There are scrolling levels that give you few opportunities to get eggs and many situations 
 where you need them, swarms of enemies, moving platforms over bottomless pits that go through gauntlets 
 of fire or spike hazards, and other hair-tearing obstacles. And it's even worse if you're trying 
 to get 100% completion for a level, since part of that requires beating it with a full timer, and 
 getting hit causes you to temporarily lose your baby, with the timer counting down until you get 
 them back. Oh, and did I mention that you can't use the babies' unique abilities until you get 
 them back? If you're over a large, windy bottomless pit with Peach, getting hit can all but screw 
 you over.
  
  Artoon tried adding new methods of transportation to add some variety to the levels, such as a 
 new nameless kangaroo partner who is apparently supposed to replace Poochy the dog. The kangaroo 
 just jumps higher than you do, and it only appears in a few bonus rooms filled with coins, so you 
 don't actually need it to progress through levels. Whereas Poochy would provide safe passage over 
 spikes or lava, and was actually useful. The lack of usefulness plus the kangaroo's lame character 
 design just scream "rushed". There's also stilts and a rocket. The stilts aren't bad but still 
 feel unnecessary, and the rocket sequences really could've been pulled off better.
  
  The gameplay takes place on both screens, so the other mostly doesn't go to waste. You can get 
 a better look at items hanging in the sky or look ahead in areas where you move vertically. However, 
 there's a blind spot between the screens where the hinge is, and it's not unusual for items, platforms, 
 or more dangerously, enemies to hide out in this gap. The Touch Screen doesn't get much use  just 
 in menus and bonus mini-games at the end of levels, but I suppose that's a good thing. A platform 
 game like this wouldn't need much, if any, and it's good to see Artoon didn't try to shoehorn in 
 some badly-executed gimmick for it.
  
  After all this negativity, did they do anything right? Well, as mentioned before, the graphics 
 and environments look great, lack of special effects aside. Some of the character sprites have 
 been given a slight improvement over the original, even, most notably Yoshi himself. Yoshi is perfectly 
 controllable, though a few tweaks to the egg-throwing and some baby-specific moves may take a little 
 getting used to. And the giant boss fights are still fun.
  
  I hate to be this negative towards a game, but a DS game can be much better than this, and a sequel 
 to Yoshi's Island should be much better than this. The whole deal is a disappointment for those 
 who played the original, and the lack of effort won't make it worth the price for those that didn't. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jouvjouv
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I've never played the original Yoshi's island, but I must say, I'm quite impressed with the Yoshi 
 Island DS. It's suitable for all ages, but it doesn't mean it's only for kids, but adults as well. 
 It's one of those games that are simply, fun to play. The environments were well detailed, controls 
 were precise, and as mentioned before, fun to play. It's general presentation is impressive, and 
 have met my expectations. If you were unsatisfied with NSMB, Yoshi's island might be the good game 
 you're looking for. But do remember that personal tastes do differ. Overall, it's worth playing 
 for any mario or Yoshi fans, or just any gamers looking for a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wckman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I will begin this review by saying that I'm not familiar with the original Yoshi's Island game, 
 but I know that Yoshi Island DS is fantastic. The controls, the graphics, the sound, the challange, 
 the levels... It just all comes together in a compelling package that I enjoyed more than New Super 
 Mario Bros. 
  
  The graphics are just cutsie enough to be good looking though the look of the game is not mind 
 bending. The bright, colorful backgrounds and great animation make this platformer stand out. Everything 
 is just so pleasant to look at. The sound is full of bep-bops that fill the happy tone of the game 
 rather well.
  
  The gameplay itself is top notch. The controls are superb, the levels are gynormous, the bosses 
 are awsome, and hasn't everyone wanted to be a baby Wario? The level of challange is brilliant 
 too. The levels get harder and harder to do as the level progresses and the final boss is appropriatly 
 tough. But really stands out is the replay value. This game is mean about collecting things. You 
 HAVE to collect EVERYTHING!!! to get the better ending. Its a fun chore, that challenges ones sanity. 
 Thus the game strikes a balance for the new-comers and the hard core.
  
  If you played New Super Mario Bros, and came away slightly disappointed with its difficulty, try 
 Yoshi Island DS. Heck if you own a DS, this should be in your library. Happy Egging!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blonderambo
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  I absolutely loved Yoshi's isand for the SNES and I also loved the GBA re-release. This one is 
 great but compared to the other one not quite as good. This DS version adds new features which 
 add strategy to the gameplay such as the switching of babies. The graphics are much better also. 
 I certainley miss the older version's music, it just doesn't feel like Yoshi's island anymore with 
 the newer, more cheery (on some levels.) , not as memorable music. Another thing that annoys me 
 is the new controls, they were easy to use in the earlier version (s) but were kind of awkward in 
 this one. The most awkward control was holdin Y (I think it was) to run with Baby Mario but Y also 
 makes yoshi stick out his tongue to eat enemies. So whenever you have to run you know what you 
 do instead... eat. Then you die. Meh, oh well this is still a very fun game and definitely brings 
 the game back to life but its not as memorable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guard12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has done it again! They made another kick ass game for the DS and it is a sequel to my 
 favorite game of all time: Yoshi's Island. 
  
  I have nothing bad to say about this game. It is perfect just like the first one. Where to start.. How 
 bout the controls.. The controls are spot on perfect from jumping to throwing eggs or from. Next 
 the graphics.. I personally love the coloring book style the Yoshi's Island games have and it sure 
 as hell works for this one to. The story is pretty similar to the first one.. without spoiling it 
 not only do u get mario as a baby but also peach, donkey kong, and others to partner with Yoshi 
 this time around. The DS style works with the duel screens.. Nintendo really put some thought into 
 the level design when making this incredible sequel.
  
  Basically, if you have a DS... than get this game NOW!! A must own and a true classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  I played Yoshi's Island and it was great! But this game, Yoshi's Island DS, is the true remake 
 of the 1995 classic.
  I got this game last Christmas, well my brother did, but I got addicted to this game. Sure it might 
 have replaced the original music, but the new music is super. The graphics are better and more 
 fun to look at than Yoshi's Topsy Turvy or Yoshi Touch and go. Those game stink! The sound is great. 
 Some of the original sound from the first game can be heard. The audio is the most unlambasting 
 audio ever. Camera and Control, eh, what can you say, it's DS.
  
  Buy this game, NOW and see what it is. The best game of 2006! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-Boys4Life
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island DS is really an ok game but it doesn't live up to its predasesor. I've played this 
 game for a week and almost put the game down 3 times. Not because its was hard because it lacked 
 interest for me. Just the whole changing babies to fit the mood really didn't interest me. Second 
 time I was really mad because there are no touch Fuzzies get Dizzy which in the first game I hated 
 touching but still it should be part of any Yoshi game. 3rd time was because I was getting bored 
 of it and that doesn't happen very often for Mario based games but I was happy to beat this game 
 in a week. Also the music was really really bad in this game. I wish it was the old music from 
 the first Yoshi's Island. To be honest this game is really hard to run 100 points across of all 
 the levels on each world. Over all this game is good if you never played the first one but if you 
 have stick to the SNES/GBA version of the first one its just better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamfudge
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  yoshis island ds is a fun platformer and its fun switching babies its easy to play and complete 
 but one level in world 3 realy troubled me and took me ages lol. After i completed the game i enjoyed 
 playing the minigames my favourite was the flying one my highscore is 261 metres . anyone who likes 
 playing mario games and enjoys a good platformer i would advice you to get this game and anyone 
 with a ds it is one of the must haves
  yoshis island ds is a fun platformer and its fun switching babies its easy to play and complete 
 but one level in world 3 realy troubled me and took me ages lol. After i completed the game i enjoyed 
 playing the minigames my favourite was the flying one my highscore is 261 metres . anyone who likes 
 playing mario games and enjoys a good platformer i would advice you to get this game and anyone 
 with a ds it is one of the must haves
  yoshis island ds is a fun platformer and its fun switching babies its easy to play and complete 
 but one level in world 3 realy troubled me and took me ages lol. After i completed the game i enjoyed 
 playing the minigames my favourite was the flying one my highscore is 261 metres . anyone who likes 
 playing mario games and enjoys a good platformer i would advice you to get this game and anyone 
 with a ds it is one of the must haves
  yoshis island ds is a fun platformer and its fun switching babies its easy to play and complete 
 but one level in world 3 realy troubled me and took me ages lol. After i completed the game i enjoyed 
 playing the minigames my favourite was the flying one my highscore is 261 metres . anyone who likes 
 playing mario games and enjoys a good platformer i would advice you to get this game and anyone 
 with a ds it is one of the must haves
  yoshis island ds is a fun platformer and its fun switching babies its easy to play and complete 
 but one level in world 3 realy troubled me and took me ages lol. After i completed the game i enjoyed 
 playing the minigames my favourite was the flying one my highscore is 261 metres . anyone who likes 
 playing mario games and enjoys a good platformer i would advice you to get this game and anyone 
 with a ds it is one of the must haves
  yoshis island ds is a fun platformer and its fun switching babies its easy to play and complete 
 but one level in world 3 realy troubled me and took me ages lol. After i completed the game i enjoyed 
 playing the minigames my favourite was the flying one my highscore is 261 metres . anyone who likes 
 playing mario games and enjoys a good platformer i would advice you to get this game and anyone 
 with a ds it is one of the must haves
  yoshis island ds is a fun platformer and its fun switching babies its easy to play and complete 
 but one level in world 3 realy troubled me and took me ages lol. After i completed the game i enjoyed 
 playing the minigames my favourite was the flying one my highscore is 261 metres . anyone who likes 
 playing mario games and enjoys a good platformer i would advice you to get this game and anyone 
 with a ds it is one of the must haves
  yoshis island ds is a fun platformer and its fun switching babies its easy to play and complete 
 but one level in world 3 realy troubled me and took me ages lol. After i completed the game i enjoyed 
 playing the minigames my favourite was the flying one my highscore is 261 metres . anyone who likes 
 playing mario games and enjoys a good platformer i would advice you to get this game and anyone 
 with a ds it is one of the must haves
  yoshis island ds is a fun platformer and its fun switching babies its easy to play and complete 
 but one level in world 3 realy troubled me and took me ages lol. After i completed the game i enjoyed 
 playing the minigames my favourite was the flying one my highscore is 261 metres . anyone who likes 
 playing mario games and enjoys a good platformer i would advice you to get this game and anyone 
 with a ds it is one of the must haves 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn_Watson
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 18, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game to begin with. The graphics are simply gorgeous and shows off what the DS is 
 capable of perfectly. The gameplay is, to begin with, easy and imaginative. But it it quickly gives 
 way to tedium by about the third level.
  
  The problem is that it doesn't really change much and you end up doing more or less the same damn 
 thing in every level. There became less and less need for me to go back to the game. I like new 
 things to constantly crop up and develop through the course of a video game, even in a simple kid's 
 game such as this.
  
  Much like the original Yoshi's Island, that I played on my GBA, this game starts off great with 
 loads of color and cuteness, but fails to keep it all interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: st0700
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is a complete waste of time. it's babyish and boring. The game is too easy and too plain...
 
  
  The game is pathetic and stupid. This game is basicly designed for young kids. if you have a younger 
 brother or sister between 4 and 7 this game is great but this game is less than inspiring for anyone 
 else.
  
  it is too expensive for what it is. The graphics are awefull and the controls lack a lot.
  
 
  it has no multiplayer and the music is enough to drive you crazy. If you are buying this game 
 for a younger brother or sister, I recommend buying them some headphones whilst you're at it!!
 
  
  on the good side it has lots of levels and lots of different unlockables which are still quite 
 challenging!!
  
  This game was a complete and utter let down!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EternalYoshi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island DS is a sequel to the Super Nintendo Game: Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island. 
 It is in my opinion, the best 2D platformer on the Super Nintendo ever. It's blend of classic Mario 
 platforming with new mechanics and features made it very popular.
  Yoshi's Island DS retains that charm. Yoshi can eat enemies, spit them out, and make eggs out of 
 them like in the first Yoshi's island. Yoshi can still throw eggs and most of the time will still 
 ricochet across walls, ceilings, and floors. Yoshi can also still ground pound, flutter jump, and 
 push rocks and objects. The game rules are also the same as the last one. Go to the end of the 
 stage without falling into pits or having your baby taken away. Just like before, if you get hit, 
 the baby will be in a bubble and a countdown starts counting down how much time you have before 
 it gets captured. The scoring system is also the same and getting great scores will unlock more 
 stages.
  What also makes a return are the morph bubbles. There are not as many, but it's nice to see the 
 helicopter, submarine, and mole bubbles return. What's new is the inclusion of baby versions of 
 Donkey Kong, Wario, Peach, and Bowser. Each baby has their own benefits and disadvantages, and 
 you can switch between them at certain places. For example, Baby DK Allows Yoshi to swing on ropes 
 and vines like Donkey Kong Jr. However, DK is heavy and Yoshi won't be able to flutter jump as 
 far as usual. This adds new dimensions to the gameplay and is nicely appreciated.
  The graphics are better this time around. The art direction is retained but with better detail. 
 The music, however, is not as exciting as the first game. It's understated so I recommend you listen 
 to your Walkman while you play.
  What's disappointing here is the lack of multiplayer. The original had no multiplayer, but they 
 could have made a multiplayer mode from the mini-games you find and unlock. It would have been 
 a good experience.
  Anyway, Yoshi's Island DS is a great Platformer for the DS. Despite being a little inferior to 
 the original, this game is worth your money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanunknown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island is an amazing platform game for the DS in which you take the part of different yoshis 
 protecting babies from bowser. It can take a little while to get used to but after you learn the 
 controls, you are away. It is really addictive and the levels have a great simplistic design which 
 makes it look great. It can take a bit of practice on certain levels and getting really good scores 
 can take a time. In story mode, you can take a break and go to museums where you can see all the 
 baddies you've killed. The mini-games are good but some of them are boring and you have to get 
 lucky to get a good score. Anyway, I would say buy this game to anyone who likes the DS or plaform 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterAsh42
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Earlier this year, Pokemon-developer Game Freak took gamers on an old-school trip with the 2D side-scroller 
 Drill Dozer. With an interesting control mechanic, engaging level design, and loads of style, the 
 title recalled industry classics such as Super Mario Bros. 3, Sonic the Hedgehog, and Super Mario 
 World 2: Yoshi's Island. With the genre more in-vogue now than ever, thanks to the popularity of 
 Nintendo's two handhelds and releases like the aforementioned Drill Dozer, Yoshi's Island DS maintains 
 the momentum of the nostalgia movement.
  
  In the previous installment, Baby Bowser's henchman Kamek the Magikoopa attempted to prevent Baby 
 Mario and Baby Luigi from fulfilling their destinies of causing never-ending headaches for the 
 Koopa clan. When Baby Mario evaded capture, he landed on Yoshi's Island, and the multicolored dino's 
 personally delivered the infant hero-to-be via relay back to his brother. The game closed with 
 the stork successfully completing his initial delivery of the babies to their parents.
  
  Dismayed at his failure, Kamek has now upped the ante. He and his Toadies begin capturing babies 
 from all over the world, including the previously delivered brothers. The stork promptly intervenes, 
 managing to send both Baby Mario and new arrival Baby Peach plummeting back to Yoshi's Island, 
 where the stalwart Yoshi's once again decide to lend a hand to stop Kamek and save the babies.
 
  
  Like the game's story, the control and mechanics of the title remain largely unchanged from the 
 SNES original. The Yoshis can still hop, hover, hip-drop (butt-stomp) , and use their signature 
 tongues to devour enemies. Swallowing foes transforms them into eggs, which can be hurled at varying 
 angles to attack at a greater distance or collect the game's many pick-ups. Enemies never take 
 down the Yoshis, but will remove the baby from their back. Players must then scramble to recover 
 the bubble-encased tot before a countdown finishes and Kamek's Toadies snatch him or her. These 
 talents and premise alone proved enough for the first game, but Yoshi's Island DS mixes up the 
 old with the addition of new babies to tote.
  
  For the most part, the system adds to an already winning formula. Each baby alters the Yoshi's 
 abilities and properties of their egg projectiles. Baby Mario alone can use Super Stars and allow 
 Yoshis to run. Baby Peach brings her parasol along, allowing Yoshis to ride gusts of wind, but 
 at the expense of the making eggs more fragile. Later additions Baby Donkey Kong and Baby Wario 
 provide different kinds of mobility and offensive options.
  
  Stork stops strewn throughout the game allow the player to switch between each baby, but its with 
 this decision the mechanic feels stilted, even unexplored. The stops typically always proceed a 
 section specifically tailored for a certain baby, i. e. see a vine use DK, see a metal platform 
 use Wario and his magnet, etc. With very few exceptions, the baby switches could happen automatically 
 and not drastically affect the game-play at all. If Artoon had allowed the player to change babies 
 anytime, stage design could've greatly opened, allowing for on-the-fly ability swaps to suit a 
 more quickly varying environment.
  
  Segmentation aside, Yoshi's Island DS's levels provide ample enjoyment, if little challenge until 
 the final world and unlockable secret stages. From rolling hills peppering standard left-to-right 
 affairs to serpentine auto-scrolling to frantic escapes, levels reward careful thought and timing 
 as much as twitch reactions, especially when attempting to secure 100% stage completion. Familiar 
 enemies, including the ever-quirky Shy Guys, appear with reasonable frequency, and determining 
 the proper mode of attacking them does initially require some forethought. Boss fights occur twice 
 per the game's five worlds, often taking advantage of the system's dual screens either for aiding 
 in their defeat or simply displaying the entirety of their massive forms.
  
  Overall, the game looks and sounds like its predecessor, with environments and characters representing 
 fluidly-animated crayon drawings. All the platforming staples abound, grassy, underground, lava-filled, 
 and the like, but the whimsical art design makes them all refreshing again, even considering the 
 game's sequel status. The title doesn't fare quite as well in the sound department, though, as 
 within the first few measures of any theme a lack of Nintendo's own brand of composition is apparent. 
 Mostly, tunes fall just short of mimicking the upbeat pieces of the original, oddly enough making 
 the darker tracks, notably those used underground and in boss fights, more memorable. Nearly all 
 sound effects match the first game's samples, though the alterations of the Yoshis' hip-drop grunt 
 and the vehicle transformation sequence will jar those who can still remember how they were.
  
  Artoon managed to capture much of the magic which made gamers' first foray into Yoshi's Island 
 so memorable. Full, responsive controls and large, colorful levels keep the spirit alive, while 
 the additional babies inject enough difference to make the game feel more like a sequel than a 
 simple revisit. True, a large portion of the game is a breeze, and Artoon does slightly slip on 
 fleshing out the babies' roles and accurately emulating the tone of the original. Yet, the experience 
 still shines, making Yoshi's Island DS at least a must-play, if not a must-own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 18, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  At first this game seemed great, but after nearly finishing it, like on most levels, the puzzles 
 are difficult on the point of aggrivating. Being able to switch babies is rather meaningless accept 
 in the spots where its required. Baby bowser is nice to use but you only get two for a couple levels. 
 If you liked the first game, this sequel you might enjoy, but some of the level designs will have 
 you wanting to snap your DS.
  
  Gameplay 7- Levels and puzzles are bland if not down right frustrating at times.
  Graphics 8- 
 As good as the SNES game or better. Nice visuals
  Sound 6- the first game had better music than the tracks this one does
  Replay Value 5- Moderate- 
 Either you will play through it, enjoy it, and have no reason to play it again or you will quit 
 before you finish it.
  Fun Factor- 4- Low
  
  My Final Score- 6.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaps
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island on the Super Nintendo was nothing less than a fantastic game. Yoshi's Island DS 
 is nothing more than average.
  
  Artoon  the developers of the mind-numbingly dull Topsy-Turvy  tried to strike a fine balance 
 between retaining the feel of the original and introducing new features to keep the DS iteration 
 fun and fresh. They failed on both counts. What we end up with is a sequel that at times is downright 
 aggravating to play.
  
  Yoshi retains all of the abilities that he had in the original. He can still run, jump, and swallow 
 enemies just fine. But now, he has to babysit not only Mario, but also four other babies. Should 
 you get hit carrying one, he or she will start drifting away in a bubble, wailing. And if the countdown 
 timer reaches zero before you regain said baby, Kamek's cronies will snatch him/her, resulting 
 in you losing a life. They're not a complete liability, though, since they each come with their 
 own quirks. DK may be the heaviest of the lot, which means Yoshi cannot flutter for long, but he 
 compensates this by climbing vines and adding explosive eggs to Yoshi's arsenal (as opposed to 
 Mario's eggs rebounding off walls) . Peach, on the other hand, has a cute little parasol that allows 
 her to catch gusts of wind.
  
  Though this may sound dandy on paper, the main problem lies in the subsequent puzzles: they're 
 all too predictable and boring. Anytime you see vines, it doesn't take a genius to use DK, and 
 Wario's big-ass magnet means that you'll be fetching him every time you see metal platforms. And 
 because the game likes to throw these types of puzzles several times in most of the levels, it 
 gets old by the time you reach the second of the five worlds. Reaching the end and even attaining 
 a perfect score (climbing up that not-so-subtly hidden vine rewards me with a flower!) has all 
 of a sudden become much easier.
  
  Or it would if the level design wasn't so cheap.
  
  Many of the earlier levels play it safe  shy guys, piranha plants, a few puzzles here and there, 
 even the first boss is pretty much identical to its predecessors  and though they aren't particularly 
 inspired and feel closer to a rehash, they do carry a little nostalgia. Beyond that, though, the 
 game tries too hard to impress. Too often does it overfill the screen with enemies and so many 
 moving platforms that you aren't very likely going to get through the levels unscathed. Bullet 
 bills speeding from left and right, shy guys hopping in your way, a dozen goonie birds flying from 
 god knows where: it's total mayhem. Hit after hit after hit you're forced to endure. Artoon thinks 
 they can balance this out by giving you plenty of extra lives along the way (not that you die much 
 anyway  the game is rather forgiving in that youre given ample time to retrieve the baby before 
 the countdown hits zero) , but that doesn't cancel out the fact that it isn't very fun to play by 
 a long stretch.
  
  Yoshi's Island DS also rather annoyingly makes use of both DS screens and pretends that the gap 
 in-between can somehow display pixels. The resulting blind spot means that you constantly have 
 to look up and down to make sure a hidden enemy doesn't surprise you or in case you miss a flower 
 or a few coins. Having that large dead zone breaks the flow of the game, even more so than switching 
 babies, but ignore it and you're bound to get cheaply hit. New Super Mario Bros. and even the GBA 
 port of the original Yoshi's Island both played fine on just one screen, but for some reason, Artoon 
 sacrifices functionality to make full use of the two screens, coming off as gimmicky and ineffectual.
 
  
  At least the boss battles are somewhat entertaining, even if most of them ultimately amount to 
 repeatedly hitting them with eggs until they fall. Luring a giant leaping antlion out of quicksand 
 and pushing a ridiculously huge shy guy on stilts the height of both DS screens gradually into 
 lava stand out in particular. One exception to this, though, is the fight against Hector the Reflector, 
 a huge boo ghost, where the whole battle takes place on the top screen. Since past Mario titles 
 have taught us that you can't see boos, in the games only ingenious use of the two screens, you 
 are forced to use a mirror  the bottom screen  to dodge its attacks and kill him.
  
  But despite the occasional burst of fun, Yoshi's Island DS, despite the familiar controls and enemies, 
 no longer feels like Yoshi's Island with everything Artoon has added. The puzzles are bland. The 
 urgency to save Baby Luigi in the original has been replaced by Baby Wario and Bowser's inane fight 
 over money. They even got rid of Poochy in favour of a pointless, coin-collecting jumping kangaroo. 
 Even if you're not comparing the game to the Super Nintendo classic, Yoshi's Island DS simply doesn't 
 hold up on its own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeroJaden
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  This game is not bad but World 3 is too hard. Luckily im on the 1st boss on world 3. The yoshi's 
 and baby's and graphics are good. And you get more new bad guys and for once, Bowser is playable 
 and the bad guy is Kamek the Magician. In the tv show of Super Mario World I think Kamek is in it.
 
  And you don't get alot of power-ups but once you lose the baby it's 10-20 minutes to get em' or 
 pow, you lost. Luckily there is a checkpoint in the middle so do'nt worry. Lv 2-4 on World 3 has you 
 going left and right and through tunnels and you get a submarine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  I loved Yoshi's island 1. I was skilled at it, i enjoyed it, it was great. This one is typically 
 the same thing, but harder, shorter, and has a less nostalgic feel. It is basically a remake that 
 a 10 year old could have designed. Same monsters, same designs, same things, dead on. It's stupid 
 in the fact that it has free-roaming in dungeons, but just run through on the feilds. ( I forgot 
 the term) The touch screen is simply used for more view, sometimes with no view at all. I understand 
 there are little possibilitys for that, but god. So much of a waste. Another thing that annoyed 
 me is that while most of it is easy, there are a random few lvls (and moments) where is it just 
 painfully challenging to survive w/out wasting all of your lives. And there is an underabundance 
 of middle rings. Finally, it is just too short. Though the first had 6 worlds and this only has 
 5, its just because you can GORE your way through it in a few days. that being said, i just say 
 get it, if u have a ds. - - skalokos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Yoshis Island on the SNES was a fine game. The sequel was made about 10 years after the orignal 
 and it is worth it.
  
  The story is after the first game where Yoshis and Baby Mario freed Baby Luigi and the Stork from 
 Kamek and Baby Bowser. Kamek this time kidnaps a few more babies and they get all the babies who 
 have the 7 crystal stars and the stork rescues Baby Mario and Baby Peach who land on Yoshis Island 
 and they need to rescue them again.
  
  The gameplay this time you start out as Baby Mario who can hit M blocks, Baby Peach can hover, 
 Baby DK can climb vines, Baby Wario who can attrac coins and move metal things with his magnet 
 Baby Bowser can melt ice. They all havre these abilites and they are need to finsih the game.
 
  
  The game only ha 5 worlds instead of 6. In the special stages you don't get to use ice this time 
 or fire power ups or spit seeds. Yoshi still turns into an aeroplane, Tractor and Submarine. The 
 difficulty is a bit hard. I fou8nd it harder to finish this game. It has great graphics and is 
 a great game. It is not as good as Yoshis Island but still good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_bobbypin
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  well first let me start off with the fact that this game isn't for me i'm actually looking to sell 
 it. ya its not too good for me i first thought it was much better but i was very Disapointed with 
 it. the graphics are ok. story pretty well is OK. at times i found it too hard but then once i 
 stopped i didn't play for weeks. that just shows you how much i hate it. my least favorite part 
 is the fact that i can't use the touch screen. or use multiplayer... so i would say if you like 
 action, excitment, features, unlockables. this is NOT the game for you.
  
  thomas_bobbypin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horror_spooky
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  After seeing the reviews of Yoshi's Island DS, I wanted a copy extremely bad. Thankfully, it didn't 
 take long for me to get my hands on this platformer... however, I wasn't as overwhelmed as I expected 
 myself to be.
  
  The game plays like most platformers with the classic side-scrolling platforming elements incorporated 
 into the system. However, Yoshi's Island DS isn't just a rip-off of previous side-scrolling ventures 
 like Castlevania DS. The original twist with Yoshi's Island DS is that baby versions of Nintendo's 
 classic characters ride on Yoshi's back and each have their own special attributes.
  
  For example, when Baby Mario is riding Yoshi, Yoshi can run faster. Also, when Baby Mario is on 
 Yoshi's back, Yoshi can find small stars (that oddly look like the stars from the Care Bears movies) 
 which makes Baby Mario into a kind of superhero that is invulnerable, runs extremely fast, can 
 float, and jumps very high. However, these moments are few and far between and are very short, 
 but are still exciting.
  
  Baby Peach's special ability is that she can float and use the wind to reach higher places by opening 
 her umbrella. Baby Peach is probably the one that you will use the most throughout the game.
  
  Baby Donkey Kong has a couple of special abilities. For example, when Baby Donkey Kong is riding 
 on Yoshi's back, Yoshi's eggs have more power to them (which can both be an advantage and a disadvantage) 
 and he can climb vines.
  
  Baby Wario has a magnet that can collect coins and activate platforms.
  
  Baby Bowser can shoot 
 fireballs that destroys ice and kills nearly any enemy with one shot, but while Bowser is on Yoshi's 
 back, Yoshi is unable to throw eggs.
  
  I thought all the baby systems were incorporated well, but I was disappointed with the egg system. 
 To get eggs you either have to find something that spawns eggs or swallow and enemy. This can be 
 a hassle when you're in the middle of a level and need eggs in order to progress and you're without 
 them.
  
  Some of the levels are pretty long, but other ones are really short. Sadly, the whole game is relatively 
 easy, but the difficulty suddenly jolts at like the last few levels. It would've been better if 
 they had transitioned the difficulty better, but the developers failed to do this. Another disappointment 
 is the fact that you can get free lives WAY too easy and the bosses are a joke (even the final 
 boss) . It's also almost impossible to die since whenever you get hit the only thing that happens 
 is that the baby you are carrying is put in a bubble and you need to retrieve them before a counter 
 goes to 0. You can raise the numbers on the counter by collecting tiny golden stars and going through 
 checkpoints. However, the game still manages enough difficulty to balance out the easy parts that 
 make it not too easy and not too hard.
  
  There are some secret stages in the game that play like a mini-game, but these mini-games are very 
 lame. They aren't very entertaining at all, but after you play them in the main game you can unlock 
 them to play whenever you want if you ever feel that urge (which I doubt you would) .
  
  There are also secret levels that you can unlock by getting 100 points in every level. This is 
 just annoying because it means that you will have to repeat a level you don't like over and over, 
 which just becomes a hassle. Some of these secret levels, however, are worth the inconvenience.
 
  
  Also, there is an unlockable mode where the game times you to beat levels, which is just annoying. 
 You think they would make something more original for you to unlock then just that.
  
  Beautiful visuals grace Yoshi's Island DS and you might even stop playing for a minute to enjoy 
 the eye candy. I was very impressed by the graphics and they were near to perfect.
  
  The soundtrack is pretty decent, too. You would expect that the baby's cries would become annoying, 
 but they really don't get on your nerves like I would think they would. Leave it to Nintendo to 
 figure out how to make a baby crying not annoying.
  
  I wish that there were some more original gameplay elements in Yoshi's Island DS and that it was 
 just a little bit more difficult. I really could've done without some of the old platforming level 
 designs (like scrolling levels, that's just so annoying and makes the level drag on needlessly 
 long) . The graphics were near perfection, but could've been improved a step beyond what they were. 
 The soundtrack was basically perfect and I don't see how they could've made it any better than 
 it was. I wish there were also more babies from the Mario universe available to use and that the 
 bosses were more original and difficult.
  
  Yoshi's Island DS manages to have a sturdy base, but does fall short too many times to truly be 
 considered one of the greats. Almost, but not quite, Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoodyFlame
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island DS is very similar to the other Yoshi's Island games only with one very different 
 attribute, and no, it's not the touch screen features cause there aren't any. The story here is 
 that bowser is kidnapping the babies and this time you don't only have baby mario to save them, 
 you have Baby Peach, Baby Donkey Kong (not donkey kong Junior) , Baby Bowser and Baby Wario. Each 
 of the babies have their own unique abilities that help yoshi to get past the various obstacles 
 and puzzles you'll encounter throughout the game.
  
  The game contains rich, colourful environments that are very pleasant to look at and has excellent 
 Stereo and Surround sound that works excellently.
  
  The levels are usually long and they usually will have at least 1 check point or Middle Ring and 
 you'll encounter several different enemies and some of which have appeared in several different 
 mario games. The game contains minimal touch screen features and they are only used for things 
 like menus and such.
  
  The levels progress like any 2D platformer game would. You walk on a 2D plane with yoshi and a 
 baby on your back. You will usually be able to eat and produce eggs from most enemies which can 
 be thrown at enemies and objects to progress through the game. Switching babies happens during 
 the level by stepping on assigned platforms and they will do things like Baby peach will have an 
 umbrella so that you can float over specified holes. The game also contains a good amount of jumping 
 and running but it does get a little, if not very frustrating at times because falling down a hole 
 3000x times and repeating a level from the beginning is very annoying.
  
  The bosses are always an enlarged version of a specfiic enemy that will ask you to either throw 
 an egg 3 times at it or jump on it 3 times. The game has no multiplayer features whatsoever but 
 this game has a very strong and solid platforming experience and will meet any DS owner platforming 
 needs regardless of whether you're a fan of the series or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  For almost an age now, gamers have been looking for new 2D Mario games. For a while it seemed that 
 with the GBA, we would see something new, however it was remake after remake. This did have the 
 advantage of bringing older games to a new audience. Now with more people in arms, demanding new 
 2D style Mario games, the DS has been a saving grace. New Super Mario Bros was a smash hit, and 
 really took gaming forward. Many did consider Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island to be the greatest 
 on the SNES, so it seems right that it got a sequel.
  
  One thing that should be taken to note is that Nintendo didn't make this game by themselves. They 
 got the company, Artoon, to co-develop it. Previously, they have made Yoshi games that, well, sucked. 
 So taking the original material (in more ways than one) and churning out a classic might not be 
 something you'd expect them to do. And they haven't. However, what they have made is something 
 that outshines just about everything they have done in the past, and almost revived the Yoshi character 
 completely.
  
  The story begins in traditional ways. Kamek, loyal minion of the King Koopa, Bowser, has begun 
 stealing kids from their parents in the hopes of finding seven blessed ones. In the process, he 
 kidnaps Baby Mario and Baby Luigi. Thankfully, the stork was passing by, and manages to save Baby 
 Mario. He falls onto Yoshi's Island, and the Yoshi's decide to find the other babies.
  
  The game is spread much like the original Yoshi's Island. There are many levels, all of increasing 
 difficulty, and hidden paths, in five different worlds each with their own boss battles. The game 
 fundamentally plays much like the original, with Yoshi having a countdown when he's hit to retrieve 
 the baby and put them back on his back. But there is a huge difference with this installment. The 
 stork is there to deliver babies which help you traverse through levels. You'll find them as you 
 go through the game. Babies include Mario, Peach, DK and two others.
  
  There are some problems with the game though, but the game has its own merits too. The visuals 
 retain the original style, with one or two new ones. They look just as good as they did when they 
 graced the SNES screens. The new babies are fantastic looking, and go very well with the style. 
 The problems arise in terms of sound, and variety. The music sounds the same all the way through, 
 and the sound effects are almost all directly ripped from the SNES original. The new baby cries 
 could also get very annoying, especially Peach's.
  
  The other problem is the fact that all the levels are too familiar. The first level for the most 
 part is exactly the same as the original Yoshi's Island's first level. Thankfully from then on 
 its all new, but the general themes are roughly the same. The game even comes complete with Mini-games, 
 that aren't too dissimilar to the originals. True to the original style, the game has special items 
 to collect through the levels, namely Red Coins, Stars and Flowers.
  
  The game does have incentives to keep playing in the form of other mini-games, which act more like 
 mini-levels. None of which are too imaginative however. There is a museum mode, which lets you 
 see all the enemies. Some are interactive, which is a nice touch. There's also hidden coins with 
 faces on them, which give the player the collection vibe, as if the game needed it more.
  
  Its hard to recommend this to someone who wants more out of a platformer, because at the end of 
 the day, its all the same. The new babies and two screens make things slightly different, as is 
 the story, but to those who have played and completed the original Yoshi's Island, this shouldn't 
 be a challenge at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classicgameR4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Great game but the other babys would have been better if this was the first in the series with 
 other babies it just felt different and in a way not as good. In ways i liked this better then 
 the first because there was more to do and you used both screens witch was very good pro in this 
 game. But in other ways I liked the original much better. But if someone asked id say the first 
 one. The whole different baby thing just feels i dont know wrong in a way but the game was good.
 
  Graphics: gba or ds graphics good not bad i hate when people whine about graphics its gameplay 
 people not graphics
  Sound: good dont know what else to say
  Gameplay was great but isnt as good as the first all together great game but not as greta as the 
 first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ma_rc_01
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  The successor to one of the greatest side-scrollers known to man-kind, Yoshis Island lives up 
 to its SNES grand-dad by adding just enough new and keeping just enough old to make an almost 
 perfect mix. The game feel fresh but it also keeps all the charm and the wonderful control it always 
 had.
  
  The game starts with the evil magician Kamek kidnapping every baby in the world for some obscure 
 reason, during transport, Baby Mario falls out of the sky and onto Yoshis back, and whats a yoshi 
 to do? Save the world with the aid of babies of course!
  
  The game plays like its predecessor, but this time, the baby carriers seem to have butterfingers, 
 because they drop more and more of them. You get 5 babies in total, Mario can hit certain blocks, 
 make Yoshi run and can sometimes transform into Super Baby Mario, who can run on walls and is invincible. 
 Peach can float using her parasol (or umbrella?) to glide or fly using conveniently placed fans, 
 Donkey Kong can grip vines (and for those who saw The Fast and The Furious: Tokyo Drift, he can 
 also drift) , Wario can attract metal blocks and coins using his huge magnet and Bowser can shoot 
 flames. The game uses these abilities well in the levels, that force you to switch often and even 
 revisit previous ones to discover all the secrets.
  
  The game doesnt use a lot of the DSs unique functionalities except for the two screens (more 
 on that later) and the ideas fell kind of pre-used, for example, in the first Yoshis island, every 
 boss was a huge version of a normal baddie (same in this one) . At one place, you battled a boss 
 caracter that was a huge balloon thing, but in this version its A huge balloon thing with another 
 one on top of it! OH SNAP! There is one particular boss that is really cool, You fight a giant 
 ghost that is invisible, you can only see him upside down on the second screen, which is a giant 
 mirror. The whole game takes places on both screens, no maps here, you can see a lot more of the 
 environment, but you cant see whats going on in between the two screens, and most secrets are 
 conveniently hidden in this area, coincidence? I think not. But its way easyer to shoot eggs (you 
 can eat enemies and transform them into eggs) than if the two screen would be sticked together.
 
  
  Yoshis Island DS is one really fun game, even if it didnt change that much. If in any way, shape 
 or form you liked the original on SNES or the re-release on GBA or if you are vaguely interested 
 in platformers, I urge you to buy this game if you own a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  One of the more underrated games to come out in the main Mario series was Super Mario World 2: 
 Yoshi's Island for the Super Nintendo. I remember first playing this game a long time ago and being 
 thoroughly impressed. It had terrific gameplay, a revolutionary art style, and was one of the most 
 stylistic Mario games ever made. About the only downsides to it were the constant crying of baby 
 Mario whenever you got hit by an enemy, and the fact that it wasn't really a true sequel to Super 
 Mario World. Still, it was a terrific game on its own and deserved a sequel. Well, over a decade 
 later we've finally got that sequel, and while it's not developed by Nintendo, it still manages 
 to retain the fun gameplay of the original.
  
  Anybody who's played the original has played this game already. There isn't a learning curve here 
 for people who played the SNES classic, so it's easy to just jump right in and have fun with 40 
 new levels of the same great gameplay as the first. The only new addition to the game of note is 
 the changeable babies that let you do different things depending on which one you have on your 
 back. Other than that there's not much to say, you jump, you shoot eggs, you jump, you switch babies, 
 you jump, and you use special baby abilities... then you jump some more. One annoying thing though 
 with the gameplay is that for some reason the developers decided to put actual game space in that 
 gap between the bottom and top screen, so when you shoot an egg somewhere to the top screen, the 
 game puts the egg in invisible space between the two screens as it's flying up, and sometimes enemies 
 will float into that little gap and you won't be able to see them. Aiming at such enemies is a 
 pain in the ass. That's really the only problem with the gameplay though. It's simple but fun, 
 and pulled off well enough that it's addictive and will keep you playing to the end.
  
  The graphics on the original SNES classic were among the most remarkable things about the game, 
 they were very kiddish looking, sure, but it all had a very stylistic crayon look to it that made 
 way for a lot of artistic creativity in the game. These graphics still don't fail on the Nintendo 
 DS, but they're not exactly the top of the artistic capabilities of the DS, Castlevania still smokes 
 any other 2D game on the DS in art design. The colorful, bright graphics and art style are just 
 generally pleasant to look at.
  
  Audibly the game isn't quite up to par with other offerings on the DS these days since it's got 
 pretty underwhelming music and for some reason Artoon decided that instead of making baby mario 
 cry a bit softer, they decided to make it louder and more annoying with the other babies. Strange 
 choice.
  
  For a cheap DS game you get plenty of gameplay to satisfyin you, there's 40 levels, a lot of them 
 somewhat big and perhaps a bit challenging later in the game, and the collectibles in the game 
 give you reason to go back through each level once you're done. There's no multiplayer mode in 
 the game but for a platformer it's expected. It's a worthy purchase and will give you a good amount 
 of hours of gameplay.
  
  The best way to describe this game really is just that it's about 40 more levels of Super Mario 
 World 2. It's not a new game by any means, the storyline doesn't tie in to the original in any 
 way and kind of feels like it's trying to rewrite it. In many ways it's almost like a remake, but 
 the levels changed and new gameplay features have been added. This is what ultimately takes away 
 the score from the game. While this game is plenty of fun and quite enjoyable for anyone looking 
 for another platformer aside from New Super Mario Bros., anybody expecting a game signficantly 
 improved over the original will be disappointed. All in all a worthy title for the Mario franchise 
 and a worthy addition to your DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is the new worlds and levels, they are really good in length and difficulty. 
 Also, the new music is really good and a lot of enemies to defeat on the way. In this one, instead 
 of carrying only baby mario, you can also carry baby peach, donkey kong, wario, bowser, which is 
 unique and really cool. The abilities that yoshi can get with the babies is really helpful in harmful 
 situations. The golden coins hidden in each level is a really good sidequest to do other than getting 
 100% on each level. The secret levels you get after you 100% clear all levels in a world is really 
 cool. The bad parts of this game is that there is not as many worlds in this game as there is in 
 the older yoshi game. Also, carrying a baby can get annoying with the crying if a enemy hits you, 
 or if enemies keep hitting you and messing up your progress. Overall, this game is really good, 
 and a good sequel to the really good good for the snes, and the gba. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air_wolf_cubed
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  With the oncoming charge of the Magical Wii and all of its wonderfulness some people forget the 
 games which come alongside with it. One of these games is Yoshi's Island DS, the official sequel 
 to Yoshi's Island for the Super Nintendo (Yoshi's Story is said by Nintendo not to be a sequel 
 but a spin off, like Yoshi's Touch and Go) .
  
  Plot wise the game is very good, Kamek has once again kidnapped Baby Luigi and some other babies 
 but luckily the Stork comes to save 3 other babies. Baby Mario, Baby Peach and Baby Donkey Kong. 
 Although this doesn't fit in with the Donkey Kong games with DK Jr. and Mario being the same age 
 instead of Mario being older and a zoo keeper in Brooklyn it is still a nice intro to the story. 
 Yoshi finds Baby Mario once again and sets off with help from the stork to find out what Kamek 
 is doing once more, and there is a lot of Cut Scenes, with text mind, using the sprites which is 
 quite funny at times, sort of like a Mario and Luigi RPG.
  
  Yoshi's Island fans like me will rejoice for the familiar but not too similar game play mechanics. 
 Throwing Eggs can use the X or R Buttons. Jumping uses A and the directional buttons move your 
 Yoshi. All pretty simple but a pain to master after playing Yoshi's Island for the GBA a lot. As 
 usual Yoshi can eat enemies and turn them out into eggs, by pressing B Yoshi's tongue stretches 
 out and sticks to any enemy which then comes back and can be spat out or eaten and somehow transformed 
 into an egg in 1 second. Pressing X or R fires the egg which is a lot more than hitting Enemies 
 and Bosses now, various special items like the red coins and 1-Ups hover on the top screen, although 
 this is using the DS to its advantages it is pretty dull with most action taking place on the bottom 
 screen and rarely happening on the top. And this is the ONLY DS feature, no touch screen at all, 
 not even a mini game. They have the scratching cards mini game which could have used the stylus 
 but doesn't and just automatically does it when you select a card.
  
  The life system is incredibly easy too. From World 1-5 (Yes 1 less world than the original) I never 
 had one game over, basically the only time I lost a life was in the castles and the last couple 
 of levels. Which doesn't matter since I finished with something like 65 lives, but that is without 
 braving for the flowers and red coins. Also, in most games the bosses are the funnest part right? 
 Well here they aren't so much fun. Most of them use Eggs and no real tactic. Just a wait till they 
 show their face then battle. 3 hits then they are dead. The only innovative boss is the first Worlds 
 last boss. That's it.
  
  The graphics are a step above Yoshi's Island and they still retain there charm. Yoshi looks a little 
 down graded though in terms of shading but everything else is OK. Nintendo was a little lazy with 
 the sprites as with Baby Bowser in the same form as his SNES self and the enemies looking no different 
 just a little brighter and an extra layer of shade.
  
  If you want the game for the musical charm of the last game well tough luck. The cutesy songs have 
 gone to be replaced by one song which is remixed to match the surroundings. In a fiery world? Add 
 some bongo sounds. In a cave? Add some screeches. The last game had music which stuck in peoples 
 minds, this doesn't.
  
  The length of the game is short compared to others, I completed it in 3 days. With breaks for more 
 than 5 hours and of course sleep. So it is pretty much easy.
  
  Overall if you are in the need for some Yoshi Adventuring, go for the GBA version of Yoshi's Island. 
 Sure this version has a couple of new gimmicks like baby swapping for puzzles but still, fans of 
 the first game will feel a little disappointed but new comers could try this out first if they 
 wanted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioManiac34
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 23, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Introduction: Ive never played the original Yoshis Island on the SNES. However, that didnt keep 
 me from being VERY excited when a sequel was announced. I had recently really gotten into 2-d platformers, 
 and the idea of another Nintendo platformer coming to DS just made me so excited. I received a 
 free players guide from a Nintendo Power offer and got the game for Christmas. Was Yoshis Island 
 DS an island worth visiting? Read on to find out!
  
  Story: Most of the story in YIDS takes place in an opening sequence before the title screen and 
 in a short sequence when you start a new game. Apparently, not unlike the Others from Lost, Kamek 
 the evil Magikoopa likes babies. So, he decides to send his minions to kidnap babies from Yoshis 
 Island. Among these babies are Mario, Luigi, and Peach. Thankfully, a stork comes along and knocks 
 Baby Mario and Baby Peach out of the bad guys clutches. Baby Mario lands on a Yoshis back and 
 Baby Peach lands nearby. Notice I said a Yoshis back. Theres not just one Yoshi. Instead, theres 
 a whole tribe of them, each a different color. They decide to help Baby Mario and Baby Peach rescue 
 Luigi and the other babies. Infant versions of Donkey Kong, Wario, and Bowser also eventually join 
 the quest. Besides these opening sequences the story also advances through little clips between 
 certain levels. Though the story isnt phenomenal or anything, it is a nice change of pace from 
 the typical Bowser captures Peach, Mario saves Peach storyline found in most Mario-esque games. 
 Also, the dialogue in the story can also be funny at times. This is especially true when Baby Bowser 
 is around.
  
  Gameplay: Throughout the games five worlds, youll be controlling one of the Yoshis, along with 
 the baby on his back. Each different baby  Mario, Peach, DK, Wario, and Bowser  has a special 
 ability that Yoshi can take advantage of. However, Yoshi also has some abilities of his own. The 
 most obvious is his ability to throw eggs. You can get eggs either by slurping up enemies or hitting 
 various egg blocks around the levels. When you want to throw an egg, a rotating aimer comes up. 
 You then fire the egg when the aimer is at the right spot to hit your target. Youll use your eggs 
 for a variety of things including killing bad guys, hitting hard-to-reach items, and besting bosses. 
 Yoshis egg ability is very unique and is one of my favorite aspects of the game.
  
  Another unique ability that Yoshi has is his flutter move. If you hold down the jump button after 
 Yoshi jumps, he will flutter by kicking his legs back and forth. Also, when Yoshi is at the end 
 of the flutter, you can press the jump button again to make him flutter more. After that flutter, 
 press jump again to flutter more. You can keep doing this until Yoshi hits the ground. Yoshis 
 flutter ability is really fun to do, and it will take practice master it.
  
  Like I mentioned earlier, each baby also has a special ability that makes him or her unique. Baby 
 Mario can run fast and hit special Mario Blocks. Baby Peach can use her umbrella to take advantage 
 of wind currents. Being a monkey, Baby DK can climb vines. He can also do a special dash attack. 
 What is Baby Bowsers ability? Fire breath (big surprise there!) . All of these babies abilities 
 are very fun to do. Also, they all blend seamlessly into the levels. What I mean by this is that 
 you wont feel that one of these babies stands out from the rest. None of these babies abilities 
 feels gimmicky at all.
  
  You may have noticed that I didnt talk about baby Wario in the paragraph above. That is because 
 Baby Wario is a failure. He has a magnet that can attract coins and manipulate metal objects. This 
 is not fun hardly at all. It just feels really tacked on and gimmicky. Also, you wont feel like 
 Baby Wario blends as seamlessly with the other babies as they do with each other. He kind of just 
 sticks out. Thankfully, Baby Wario is only one out of five babies, and thus, he doesnt ruin the 
 whole games.
  
  Something else that might stick out to you while playing Yoshis Island DS is the level design. 
 All of the levels are designed very well. This is especially true of the levels in world 4. Some 
 of these levels are just so creative and fun to go through. My favorite is probably World 4-7. 
 For about half the level, youll just be flying down a snow-covered mountain on skis. Youll also 
 be jumping to avoid the perilous gaps that could send you to your doom. This is one of my favorite 
 levels, and it would probably be one of yours, too.
  
  In each level, there are three main types of items that you can try to collect  Red Coins (of 
 which there is 20) , Flowers (5) , and Stars (amount depends on level) . Each type of item is worth 
 a specific amount of it points. Red Coins and Stars are worth 1 point each, so thats fifty points 
 if you collect them all. Each Flower has a value of 10 points. Thats another fifty, for a grand 
 total of one-hundred. While it will be hard to collect Flowers and Red Coins, the Stars are the 
 hardest to collect.
  
  When you start a level, youll automatically have ten stars. If you get hurt, whatever baby is 
 on Yoshis back will fall off and float in a bubble. The longer he/she is in the bubble, the more 
 Stars youll lose. If your Star count reaches zero, its game over, buddy. Luckily, there are more 
 than thirty stars in a level, so you can afford to get hurt some. However, on boss levels, even 
 if you have thirty Stars at the start of the fight, youll have to beat the boss without getting 
 hurt if you want to get a perfect score. This is not the easiest thing to do.
  
  There are two more things I should note about the gameplay in YIDS. One is the difficulty. Though 
 not impossible, Yoshis Island DS can get fairly challenging. This is especially true in the last 
 two worlds. However, the bosses arent challenging really at all. Its just the actual levels themselves 
 that can be difficult.
  
  The last thing Ill say about the gameplay is actually one of the first things I noticed. YIDS 
 controls arent as simple as say, the controls in New Super Mario Bros. This makes the game less 
 pick-up-and-play friendly. However, once you get used to them, the controls arent that big of 
 a deal.
  
  Graphics: One of YIDS strongest aspects is its visuals. The graphics have sort of a crayon-colored 
 look to them. Everything is all bright, colorful, and lush. Also, I think the variety of Yoshis 
 Island DSs locales add to the appeal of the visuals. There are a lot of different locations. These 
 range from a tropical island to a snow-covered mountain. Then after that, you might visit the clouds 
 or go to some old mining tracks! Though it isnt a big deal, there is one thing I feel I should 
 note about YIDS graphics. There is a small thin, black line outlining Yoshi, whatever baby hes 
 carrying, and other things in the environment. It seems like this black line is sort of jagged. 
 It just doesnt look very smooth. Like I said, this is hardly worth noting, but I thought I should 
 mention it.
  
  Sound/Music: Sadly, the sound/music department doesnt hold up nearly as well as the graphics. 
 Lets start with the sound. All the sounds Yoshi makes when he jumps, slurps, etc. sound fine. 
 Theyre nothing special, but they get the job done However, when Yoshi gets hurt and the babies 
 get knocked off of his back, they cry. Each baby has a different cry. Some of them are all right, 
 such as Baby DKs cry. However, some of the other babies crying is terrible. What do I mean by 
 terrible? What I mean is painful to the ears. One example is Baby Wario. His crying is so loud, 
 obnoxious, and annoying, youll be tempted to turn off the volume.
  
  OK, so the sound isnt good, but the music is great, right? No, sadly that is not the case. Though 
 well composed, it just gets so repetitive. There are not a lot of different tunes and the instruments 
 playing the songs dont change a whole lot. There is one thing I liked about the music, though. 
 When theres a story scene with bad guys, the music playing in the background is a scarier version 
 of a usually happy song youve heard before in the game. This is a nice touch that I really appreciate.
 
  
  Value: The value of Yoshis Island DS is ok, but not the best. For starters, there are noticeably 
 less levels than in most Nintendo-published platformers. The level count stands at around fifty, 
 and this includes secret levels that you can unlock. Unlocking them might take awhile though, as 
 one of the requirements is to get a score of 100 on basically every level in a world! As I mentioned 
 earlier, to get one hundred youll have to get all of the three types of items. This will take 
 any gamer a while. Also, there are character coins that are scattered throughout the levels, with 
 one in each level. Only the character on the face of the coin can collect it, so sometimes youll 
 have to come back to a level when you have a certain character.
  
  Besides the secret levels and items, there is a few minigames you can get. None of these are going 
 to keep you attached for very long, though none of them are bad. I liked some of them better than 
 others, and Im sure you like different ones. Also, you can unlock hard versions of these minigames, 
 though they dont seem a whole lot harder than the regular versions.
  
  Overall: Yoshis Island DS is a great game, but its not without its flaws. The egg-tossing, fluttering 
 gameplay is fun, but Baby Wario is a failed concept. Also, while the graphics are great, the sound 
 couldve used some work. If youre looking for a game that you can keep in your DS forever, this 
 isnt it, as YIDS doesnt have the greatest value, either. However, if youre looking for a 2-d 
 platformer, a new Mario game, or just a fairly decent gaming experience, Yoshis Island DS is sure 
 to satisfy.
  
  Story - surprisingly good; can be humorous
  
  Gameplay  Yoshis abilities are great, and so are most of the babies abilities; except Warios
 
  
  Graphics  great art style, no matter how nit-picky I can be
  
  Sound/Music  babies crying is painful, and music is repetitive
  
  Value - if you like collecting 
 times, this game is for you; if not, theres not much value
  
  Overall  8.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firehawk110
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  This is the sequel to yoshi's island for SNES and it's a hell lot better. buy  
 BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY 
 BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY  I'm sorry, I just don't 
 want to write that long of a review but I have to. anywyays, this game is really great, a masterpiece, 
 awesome, extremely fun, in short, buy it. buy buy buy buy buy it buy buy buy buy buy buy it it 
 it it it buy buy buy it itititititititititiitit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  As big a fan of the Mario series as I am, somehow I missed out playing the orignal Yoshi's Island 
 on the SNES. I don't know how I passed it up. Maybe I didn't like its commercial that featured 
 a disgusting fat man eating until he exploded. Anyway I finally did get to play it when it came 
 out for the GBA and it was one of the most impressive platformers to date. What could've been a 
 simply Mario knockoff introduced plenty of new and orignal elements and a story that was more of 
 a prequel to the original SMB.
  
  Though Yoshi proved his success as a break out star from the Mario series, some of his recent titles 
 haven't been as spectacular. There was the overly childish Yoshi's Island 64 and the awful Yoshi 
 Topsy Turvy and after those less than impressive adventures, Yoshi went back to his early platforming 
 roots.
  
  We return to Yoshi's Island once again. Yoshi reunited baby Mario with his brother and got them 
 safely home, but Kamek isn't going to give up so easily. This time, Bowser has traveled into the 
 past as well in order to prevent Mario and Luigi from growing up and defeating him. This time around 
 Kamek and his minons have kidnapped more than just Mario. Many babies have been taken prisoner, 
 but luckily those clumsy minons dropped baby Mario and baby Peach right onto Yoshi's back.
  
  So Yoshi sets out once again to save baby Luigi and stop Kamek and Bowser. This time around 
 though, he has the help of the stork. The core gameplay hasn't changed much, Yoshi eats and stomps 
 his way though the island but the newest feature added is the addition of new babies each with 
 different abilities. Mario can make Yoshi run fast, activate special blocks and use the magic cape 
 star to run around invicible, Peach uses her parasol to float over holes and catch breezes, DK 
 slows Yoshi down but can do a dash attack and climb on ropes and vines. While Mario, DK and Peach 
 stay with you throughout the game, for certain levels you are joined by Baby Wario and Baby Bowser. 
 Wario offers a magnet to move platforms and attract all nearby coins and Bowser uses his fire attack 
 however when Bowser is flammin' Yoshi can't use his tongue (why doesn't that sound right?) . In 
 order to switch out babies, you stop at a stork station and Mr. Stork flies down and lets you swich 
 out kids. This was one major complaint because you often would pass a station only to see you needed 
 to switch out and had to backtrack. Also I wished that Wario and Bowser would've been playable 
 throughout the whole of the game instead of just their few levels. Wario's ability would've been 
 nice to finding all red coins.
  
  The game starts out easy, but midway through the second level, the difficulty is cranked up and 
 later levels can get insanely hard especially the special ones you unlock after beating Kamek. 
 I'm talking Ultimate Ghosts and Gobblins levels of frustration. There's also the challenge of collecting 
 all flowers, stars and gold coins in a level. As opposed to the first Yoshi's Island, there isn't 
 a place to store items like star cards and watermelon seeds to use when needed. I was upset this 
 feature was taken out. Still this title offers a challenge that seemed to be lacking from New Super 
 Mario Bros. As with Sonic Rush the gameplay takes up both screens to show more expansive level 
 design, the only downfall being a blocked view in that gap between screens. Sometimes you don't 
 see a flying shyguy or item hiding in between.
  
  The graphics have gotten a nice spit and polish though the crayon style world remains in tact. 
 Some of the backgrounds are really interesting. One in particular shows what appears to be shyguy 
 training quarters where, as Yoshi is making his way through you see Shyguys washing clothes and 
 giving classes. This really stood out for me.
  
  Once again there are a number of great boss battles that really involve using your head, like aiming 
 a giant rock beneath a large piranah plant so it will bite down on it and hurt itself. Some of 
 these massive bosses really seem daunting to our dino pal. Kratos has got nothing on Yoshi.
  
  There's really nothing bad to say about this game. Most complaints are minor. There's not multiplayer 
 mode, but sometimes all you want is a good single player experience and Yoshi delievers on that. 
 Yoshi's Island is fun and challenging and it's definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astro64th
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 29, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  In 1995 one of the greatest platformers of all time was released in Super Mario World 2: Yoshi&amp;#8217; s 
 Island. The fantastic sequel pushed the graphics and sound capabilities of the Super Nintendo to 
 the max, while offering gamers a unique and interesting platformer where the player controlled 
 Yoshi, who was ridden by a brand new character, Baby Mario. Using Yoshi&amp;#8217; s tongue, the 
 player could swallow enemies to create eggs which could then be thrown. This served as the basis 
 for the gameplay in Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island. While the game didn&amp;#8217; t contain puzzles per 
 se, it was filled with sections that required precise throwing technique. It was as much a thinking 
 platformer as it was an action one.
  
  While Yoshi has been in many games since his introduction in the original Super Mario World, there 
 have only been three real formal platformers starring the green dino as the main character: Super 
 Mario World 2: Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island (later released as Super Mario Advance 3: Yoshi&amp;#8217; s 
 Island) , Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Story, and most recently Yoshi Topsy-Turvy for the Game Boy Advance. 
 Nintendo finally answered gamers requests for a new Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island with Yoshi&amp;#8217; s 
 Island DS, the first proper Yoshi game for Nintendo&amp;#8217; s uber-popular portable (I don&amp;#8217; t 
 count games like Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Cookie and Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Touch &amp; Go as proper Yoshi 
 titles btw) .
  
  As a brand-new game in the Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island series, gamers were obviously very excited 
 to get their hands on the dual-screened, multiple-baby-switching platformer. I was too and thanks 
 to the courtesy of the fine folks over at game-rental service NumbThumb, I got to check the game 
 out myself and give it a full play-through. So is this sequel as good as the original?
  
  System: Nintendo DS
  Also On: None
  Genre: 2D side-scrolling platformer
  Release Date: Nov. 
 13 &amp;#8216;06 (US) , Dec. 1, &amp;#8216;06 (EU) , Mar. 8, &amp;#8216;07 (JAP)
  Save: Cart Save, three files.
  Players: 1
  Developer: Artoon
  Publisher: Nintendo
  Rated: 
 E for Everyone
  
  Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS is a wonderful game. However it&amp;#8217; s difficult to review for 
 one main reason . . . you&amp;#8217; ll either be coming to the game from a nostalgic perspective, 
 if you are one of the millions of gamers who loved the original Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island on SNES, 
 or you&amp;#8217; ll be coming to the game from a brand-new perspective, if you are one of the millions 
 of people who never played the original. And then in-between are the people who don&amp;#8217; t 
 care about graphics or sound and will simply play anything that they deem fun . . . further complicating 
 the reviewing process for someone like me. But before I get into perspectives and then close-up 
 with my personal opinion on the game, I&amp;#8217; ll educate anyone that never played the original 
 game on how this new sequel plays. In Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS you control Yoshi. Or rather, 
 you control &amp;#8220; a&amp;#8221; Yoshi (You know who he is, Mario&amp;#8217; s dinosaur-like 
 pal) as there are several Yoshi&amp;#8217; s of various colors, although all of them control the 
 same. Riding on the back of Yoshi will be one of several babies whom you can swap in and out at 
 set points in the game (easily identified by a sign-post) . But first, let&amp;#8217; s go over Yoshi&amp;#8217; s 
 moves.
  
  Like in the original Super Mario World 2: Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island and all subsequent Yoshi titles 
 in the series, Yoshi&amp;#8217; s main abilities are his tongue, flutter jump and his ability to 
 throw eggs. Pressing the Y Button will make Yoshi lash out his tongue. Most enemies in the game 
 as well as other objects can be taken into Yoshi&amp;#8217; s mouth via his long tongue. Once an 
 enemy or object is in Yoshi&amp;#8217; s mouth, it can be spit back out again by pressing Y once 
 more. This can be used to activate certain floating clouds or to destroy other enemies by spitting 
 them out into each other. You can even take fire into Yoshi&amp;#8217; s mouth and spit flames back 
 out. Pressing the down button with an enemy or object in Yoshi&amp;#8217; s mouth will typically 
 cause Yoshi to swallow it, which will create an egg. These eggs follow behind Yoshi (up to six 
 of them) . Yoshi can jump by pressing the B Button. Pressing the B Button while in the air will 
 cause Yoshi to flutter his feet (i. e. Flutter Jump) . . . this allows him to &amp;#8220; float&amp;#8221; 
 for a brief period as well as pushes him up a short distance, allowing you to make it to platforms 
 that you otherwise couldn&amp;#8217; t reach. Pressing the down button while Yoshi is in the air 
 will cause him to Butt Stomp, sending him careening into the ground. This move can be used to destroy 
 certain enemies that are otherwise indestructible, as well as to pound certain objects, like stakes, 
 into the ground or destroy parts of the floor (depending on what&amp;#8217; s below you) . Last, 
 but definitely not least, is Yoshi&amp;#8217; s ability to throw eggs. Once eggs are following behind 
 Yoshi, he (forgetting for a moment that Yoshi&amp;#8217; s are generally asexual) can throw them 
 by pressing the A Button. Pressing the A Button will cause Yoshi to aim the egg with a cursor that 
 moves up and down. Depending on your control method, pressing the A Button again or letting go 
 of the A Button will cause Yoshi to throw the egg in the direction of the cursor. This takes some 
 skill as the cursor moves up and down automatically, requiring good timing to aim the egg where 
 you want it to hit (Although holding the X Button will hold the cursor in that position) . You can 
 also use the R Button to aim and shoot eggs, and pressing the down button while the aiming cursor 
 is up will cancel it (You can&amp;#8217; t turn around while aiming btw, but you can move around 
 and jump) .
  
  Egg tossing is one of the main fundamentals of gameplay in Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS (it WAS 
 the main gameplay element in the original game) . Throughout the game you will make use of egg tossing 
 to do all kinds of stuff. You will use them to destroy enemies, activate switches (which sometimes 
 take the form of floating clouds) and even to collect faraway coins or Flowers by throwing eggs 
 into them.
  
  Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS starts you out on a map screen from which you will see several boxes, 
 these represent the various levels in the World. There are five worlds total with each world containing 
 8 initial levels. Six of the stages are standard levels, with the other two being boss battle stages, 
 represented in the box by a castle icon silhouetted in the back and pictures of the boss overlaying 
 it. There are also three unlockables per world. These boxes are shown to the right of the eighth 
 stage and are not available initially. To get to a different world on the map you can move the 
 hand cursor to the numbered tabs at the top. Pressing the Score tab will show your Score for each 
 level, and the last tab is the Museum, a place where you can view all the enemies in the game &amp;#8220; in 
 their natural habitat&amp;#8221;, without being harmed. You need to destroy them first before they&amp;#8217; ll 
 be added to the museum, so good luck finding them all!
  
  The last box is the Option menu where you can toggle between control methods and change the sound 
 (Stereo, Headphones or Surround) . Saving in Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS is done automatically whenever 
 you beat a level (it does not tell you it&amp;#8217; s saving, it simply does it) . Pressing the 
 B Button while on the map screen will back you out to the previous menus, while pressing the A 
 Button confirms. Each level in Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS has a unique name, such as: &amp;#8220; Ba-da 
 BUM&amp;#8221;, &amp;#8220; Catch the Breeze&amp;#8221;, &amp;#8220; Up the Creek&amp;#8221;, or 
 &amp;#8220; Tap Tap&amp;#8217; s Sunken Cave&amp;#8221;. Generally the level name tells you a little 
 something about what to expect in that level. Either a new enemy that is introduced or a new gameplay 
 mechanic or such that you haven&amp;#8217; t seen before. Like most 2D platformer games, the levels 
 scroll to the left or the right as you move Yoshi. One addition to Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS 
 is the fact that the playfield is taken up by two screens, which form one gigantic picture. This 
 widens your viewpoint considerably, as you can now see way into the sky or what&amp;#8217; s above 
 you. The game scrolls along with Yoshi wherever you move, so the screens are not static, the whole 
 viewpoint moves along with you. You can even hold up or down and press the X Button to move the 
 viewpoint up more to the top or bottom, so you can see even further below or above you.
  
  The goal of each level in Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS is to reach the end of the stage and jump 
 through the flower-laden &amp;#8220; Goal Ring&amp;#8221; (which will trigger a mini-game if the 
 ball lands on a Flower, giving you a chance to earn extra lives) .
  
  Of course, there&amp;#8217; s a huge different between knowing the path and walking the path, and 
 getting to the end of the level will not be easy. Getting there with a perfect score will be near 
 impossible! Ok, not really, but suffice it to say that this is one very tough and very long game 
 if you won&amp;#8217; t to see and do all that it has to offer, which means completing each stage 
 with a score of 100%. Not an easy feat. Naturally for a game like this, the levels are strewn about 
 with platforms, pitfalls, deadly spikes, soft ground that can be broken with a butt stomp or by 
 being hit from above, platforms that move or spin, switches that activate bricks you can stand 
 on or ladders you can walk up, rocks, walls, and every conceivable type of obstacle for Yoshi to 
 maneuver his way through. And of course, the levels are strewn about with many enemies to stop 
 Yoshi in his tracks. Some will be familiar faces: Bullet Bill, Koopa &amp; Para Troopas, Piranha 
 Plants, etc. and others will be all new enemies. Most enemies can be destroyed with a single bop 
 to the head, as in any typical Mario platformer. But of course it&amp;#8217; s not always so easy, 
 some enemies have spikes, others have shields and spears with which to thrust you with! Some are 
 made of lava or for some other reason cannot be destroyed normally. As stated in the intro, Yoshi&amp;#8217; s 
 Island DS is every bit a thinking man&amp;#8217; s platformer. Making the game even more complex 
 are several things to collect along the way (naturally) . These come in different forms all taken 
 from the original Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island.
  
  You&amp;#8217; ll find 20 Red Coins hidden amongst the regular gold coins that you will see scattered 
 about like in any good Mario game. When you touch these coins you&amp;#8217; ll see them flash red 
 to indicate that they are Red Coins and not gold.
  
  There are five total Flowers you can find. These are generally a little more deviously hidden than 
 the Red Coins, given that there are only five of them, and many of them will require you go out 
 of your way or through a more difficult path to retrieve them. Collect all 5 to get a 1-up.
  
  You will also come across special Character Coins. These will only be collectible if you are 
 controlling a particular baby (otherwise you will simply see an outline where the coin should be) 
 and are large gold colored coins with an engraving of the baby on the surface. Collecting these 
 coins isn&amp;#8217; t necessary to complete the level 100%, but collecting all of them in every 
 level (quite the challenge! They are sometimes very deviously hidden) will unlock hard versions 
 of the mini-games that you can play in the main menu. While the mini-games aren&amp;#8217; t special, 
 you will want to collect them all if you are to prove to be a master of Yoshi!
  
  Last but not least are Stars. At the end of each level you will get a certain number of points 
 depending on how many Stars, Red Coins and Flowers you collected. You have to have 30 Stars, 20 
 Red Coins and all 5 Flowers in order to get 100 points, and 100%, on that level. Getting 100% on 
 each level however is not required to unlock everything in the game. Naturally, levels you have 
 beaten can be played again to improve your score. Stars actually aren&amp;#8217; t a collectible 
 per se, but rather Stars act as your health.
  
  You see, when Yoshi gets hit by an enemy, the baby on his back (more on the babies in a bit) will 
 get knocked off Yoshi&amp;#8217; s saddle. He&amp;#8217; ll then start floating away in a little 
 bubble, crying his little lungs out (and yes it&amp;#8217; s just as annoying as it was in the original 
 game) . You then have a certain number of seconds to retrieve the baby. You can do this by touching 
 him in any way you can (Thankfully Yoshi&amp;#8217; s horrendously long tongue counts) . Throwing 
 eggs at the floating baby will cause him to drop, and if you get too far away generally he will 
 be pushed (by the edges of the screen I suppose) towards your general direction, although not if 
 the baby is somehow boxed in or blocked by a wall or such. The Stars come into play because they 
 act as your timer for baby retrieval. If you have collected 30 Stars, then you will have 30 seconds 
 to grab that baby. Stars are generally found floating in little clouds, shooting them with an egg 
 will cause Stars to come bursting out of the cloud. You will also gain Stars by going through Checkpoint 
 rings (a nice bonus) . Hitting the checkpoint ring will allow you to start from that part of the 
 stage if you die.
  
  Yoshi can die by either hitting spikes, which kill him in one hit, touching lava (ditto) , falling 
 off a cliff to the endless depths below (naturally killing him immediately) or by being a horrible 
 babysitter and allowing the Star Timer to run out . . . at which point Kamek&amp;#8217; s evil minions 
 will fly in and swoop out with your baby! Bad uncle Yoshi, BAD! You will die a lot in Yoshi&amp;#8217; s 
 Island DS, no matter how good your platform skills are, but it&amp;#8217; s not much of a setback 
 since you will usually find more than one checkpoint in any given level, and the game is also EXTREMELY 
 generous with bonus lives . . . Too much so. I had over 170 at one point! Thankfully though, having 
 lives does not make it any easier to get through a level. You&amp;#8217; re on you&amp;#8217; re 
 own there. Actually you&amp;#8217; re not . . . You have a bunch of lovely little babies to join 
 you!
  
  As you can tell by looking at the cover of the box, Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS introduces a brand 
 new feature for the Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island series . . . different swappable babies!
  
  There are five babies in total, although only three of them will stay with you the entire time. 
 The babies are: Baby Mario, Baby Peach, Baby Donkey Kong, Baby Wario and Baby Bowser. Each baby 
 has unique abilities that set it apart from others, including a few differences in the way a thrown 
 egg hits. Baby Mario is the first baby and the one you will have initially, and his special ability 
 is running. By holding down the Y Button Yoshi will sprint off at a faster pace. Naturally this 
 is used in many parts of the game to get passed certain moving obstacles where timing is of the 
 essence or to avoid being smashed by falling platforms or outrunning timed switches. There are 
 even a few chase sequences where a giant enemy will come crashing through everything in it&amp;#8217; s 
 path, and you&amp;#8217; ll have to run off ahead of it, at which point Baby Mario is a good candidate 
 to get you out of harms way quicker. While carrying Baby Mario you&amp;#8217; ll also be able to 
 utilize special Red blocks, which only appear if you are in control of Baby Mario, and these usually 
 allow you to access a part of the level that you couldn&amp;#8217; t otherwise, and sometimes contain 
 special vines that will grow, allowing you to reach a higher platform. And most will give you bonus 
 coins if you hit them from below.
  
  Baby Mario can also grab Super Stars, which allow you to control Baby Mario without his dinosaur 
 babysitter (who will be in a giant egg of his own through the whole Super Star sequence) . Holding 
 the Y Button allows Super Baby Mario to sprint off at a quick pace. Being small he can fit into 
 places you can&amp;#8217; t while riding Yoshi, and he&amp;#8217; s also invincible, meaning he can 
 run across spikes. But the coolest ability of Super Baby Mario is his wall-running. Simply run 
 towards a wall (or off a platform . . . at which point he&amp;#8217; ll continue running around 
 it) and Baby Mario will dash up it, even running across the ceiling. And lastly, Baby Mario is 
 the only Baby that allows eggs to be ricocheted off walls. A very big deal. As ricocheting eggs 
 in the direction you need them to go to hit something is a fundamental element of the game. Baby 
 Peach&amp;#8217; s special ability is floating via her umbrella. She can only do this however if 
 there is wind blowing, at which point Yoshi will fly off in that direction. She cannot float without 
 wind, which is a bit disappointing, although naturally the levels are designed around the fact 
 that you can only float with blowing wind. To use her umbrella Yoshi has to do a Flutter Jump, 
 at which point she&amp;#8217; ll whip the Umbrella out in a hurry. Peach does not have any special 
 Egg Throwing ability.
  
  Baby Donkey Kong is one of the most useful characters as he has more abilities than anyone else. 
 Donkey Kong can climb up and down, as well as across (hand to hand) vines, ropes and such. He can 
 also do a Dash Attack by holding the down button and pressing Y. Baby Donkey Kong also has one 
 of the most useful Egg Throwing attacks as the egg explodes upon impact, taking out anything in 
 the vicinity of the yellow-colored blast (such as a group of coins) .
  
  The latter two babies are special in that they are only selectable on certain stages on a certain 
 World. Baby Wario carries a gigantic (in relation to him anyway) magnet. The magnet attracts anything 
 metallic. This is great for collecting coins that are far away, and it&amp;#8217; s also used to 
 pull certain items, such as metal platforms or metal boxes, to you. The pulling can be somewhat 
 spotty, particularly when trying to get a platform to move back up (you have to keep jumping to 
 &amp;#8220; pull&amp;#8221; it up) , which can be annoying. Like Peach, Baby Wario has no special 
 Egg Throwing ability.
  
  Lastly is the younger version of the Koopa King himself, Baby Bowser. Not to be confused with &amp;#8220; Bowser 
 Jr.&amp;#8221;, who is a different character entirely. Baby Bowser has the very unique ability 
 of shooting fire, which can be shot in any direction (except downward) by pressing the Y Button. 
 Which means you can&amp;#8217; t use Yoshi&amp;#8217; s tongue while controlling Bowser, a big drawback, 
 although the fire is powerful, and kills any enemy it touches in one hit. Baby Bowser&amp;#8217; s 
 fire can melt ice, as well as create light to brighten up your path. Since you can&amp;#8217; t 
 eat and swallow enemies, the only way to get eggs while carrying Baby Bowser is via an Egg Spitting 
 Flower or an Egg Block, which spits out eggs when you jump into it from below (both of which you 
 will come across a lot in the game) .
  
  So now that you know how the game plays . . . how is it? As stated above, your opinion is really 
 going to come from your past experience, or lack thereof, of Yoshi experience.
  
  If you have never played a Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island game before, then boy you are in for a treat! 
 Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS is a fun game that&amp;#8217; s not too difficult to get through and 
 beat, but extremely challenging to master and finish 100%. There are tons of levels, tons of collectibles 
 and a lot to unlock, it will keep you busy for dozens and dozens of hours if you choose to fully 
 complete it. The level design is very clever as well and each and every level has hidden Red Coins, 
 Flower, and Character Coins that you are almost guaranteed not to spot on your first time through 
 a level. Most likely it will take you two or three times through, especially if you want to finish 
 with all 30 Stars in tact. And for those that have played a previous Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island game?
 
  
  Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS is fun, no doubt. It&amp;#8217; s challenging, definitely. There&amp;#8217; s 
 lots to do and the level design is great . . . . But . . . It&amp;#8217; s all been done before.
 
  
  If you have played through the first game, especially if you played it recently, you may actually 
 get bored and/or be disappointed by Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS. It is somewhat puzzling because 
 the fundamental gameplay that made the original game so great is still here. And the new baby abilities 
 add even more moves and ways to get across the levels than before.
  
  But the funny thing to me is that it felt as if the baby abilities didn&amp;#8217; t do enough . 
 . . they really don&amp;#8217; t change the fundamental way the game plays. Climbing, floating, 
 breathing fire and magnet pulling . . . except for those last two (which only come into play at 
 certain points) , Donkey Kong Country did all of the above way back in 1994. Now I don&amp;#8217; t 
 really have a problem with the gameplay. It is sound. The design, as stated before is excellent, 
 and the levels are challenging. You will hardly ever complete a level 100% on your first try, that 
 I can guarantee. But my main gripe with the game comes in two areas. The music, and the boss fights. 
 The Boss Fights are quite simply some of the biggest pushovers I&amp;#8217; ve ever seen in a game. 
 They are extremely easy and all of them die in exactly three hits (except for the final, final 
 boss) . And most of them are extremely underwhelming. You&amp;#8217; ll be left saying, &amp;#8220; That&amp;#8217; s 
 it? This is the boss of the world? . . .&amp;#8221;
  
  The biggest drawback to Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS however in my opinion comes from the music. 
 The music is understated and simplistic . . . Too much so. And whoever says that music isn&amp;#8217; t 
 a big part of the overall gameplay experience is dead wrong. None of the tunes here are memorable 
 . . . in fact they are all forgetful (even if the main tune is charming) . But the worst part is 
 the fact that most of the tunes have been made WORSE here. Why they didn&amp;#8217; t just keep 
 the music from the original Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island is beyond me, it would&amp;#8217; ve made the 
 game feel that much cooler and nostalgic as those tunes are WAY better than what you get here.
 
  
  Take the awesome cave theme from the original game for example. Can&amp;#8217; t you just hear the 
 music in your head right now? It was such a cool tune. This cave/underworld theme is . . . what 
 was it again? I don&amp;#8217; t even remember. Same deal with the castle theme. I was not a big 
 fan of the original castle theme, but it sounds like an orchestra compared to theme in this game. 
 I can&amp;#8217; t even remember how the castle theme (what there is of one) sounds like in Yoshi&amp;#8217; s 
 Island DS.
  
  And there-in lies the problem. Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS is so fundamentally similar to the original 
 (except in the music department, where it&amp;#8217; s a downward spiral for much of the game. The 
 coolest music is probably for the final boss. But even that simply pales in comparison to the original 
 boss theme . . .) that the game becomes monotonous and forgettable.
  
  Key word is forgettable. The original game was the opposite. It was so memorable, such a classic. 
 I haven&amp;#8217; t played or seen it be played (the original Super Mario World 2: Yoshi&amp;#8217; s 
 Island) in probably over 5 years, and yet I can specifically remember some of the bosses, the music, 
 and even a few levels (such as the one where the world warped when you touched the floating furry 
 things) . And what&amp;#8217; s here in Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS, while good, doesn&amp;#8217; t 
 push any kind of envelope whatsoever. Matter of fact a lot of stuff is recycled from the original 
 game. And it goes beyond enemies to gameplay mechanics and whole parts of levels (such as the aforementioned 
 chase sequences. As well as Shy Guy&amp;#8217; s on stilts, giant Chain Chomps that fall from above, 
 etc.) . What surprised me the most though is that I love platformers. I&amp;#8217; m a big platformer 
 fan and an even bigger fan of the original game, which I highly regard as one of the best games 
 ever made, easily in my top 20 games of all time list. And yet somehow Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island 
 DS managed to actually, literally BORE me. I could only play so much of it before I&amp;#8217; d 
 have to give it a rest out of boredom . . . How is that possible?
  
  The only way I can explain it is disappointment. I was expecting some new, cool Yoshi goodness. 
 Instead, I got more of the same. Literally.
  
  If it&amp;#8217; s not broke, don&amp;#8217; t fix it. Right? Well I&amp;#8217; d have to disagree 
 on this one. Is it as big a disappointment as Yosh&amp;#8217; s Story was? CLEARLY not. This game, 
 despite all it&amp;#8217; s similarities to the original, is extremely good. Like I said, the gameplay 
 is excellent. So is the level design. It&amp;#8217; s challenging, and it&amp;#8217; s as long if 
 not longer than the original game, with just as many if not more levels than the original, and 
 all of them are great. But I can&amp;#8217; t remember them. And I&amp;#8217; m serious. And that, 
 my fellow reader, is disappointing. I believe it&amp;#8217; s because of Artoon handling the development 
 duties instead of Nintendo.
  
  So what&amp;#8217; s the final verdict? If you have never played a Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island game 
 or if you have and don&amp;#8217; t remember it well, or if you have and are the type of person 
 who doesn&amp;#8217; t give a fig about the game&amp;#8217; s music or all this  
 and  nonsense, then by all means, buy Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS. 
 I doubt you&amp;#8217; ll be disappointed, especially if you enjoy platformers and are up for a 
 collectible challenge. If you are someone like me, then simply go into the game knowing that the 
 music sucks (yes I said it) , the graphics look the same (although I do dig the bigger playfield) 
 and the gameplay doesn&amp;#8217; t offer anything new . . . even with five babies to choose from. 
 The story is completely forgettable, and is an utter retread of the first game&amp;#8217; s story 
 (except now he&amp;#8217; s stealing random babies, and something about Star Power hidden in certain 
 babies . . . namely the ones you control) . It&amp;#8217; s so ridiculous, it even copies down to 
 the whole Baby Luigi being kidnapped business. Not that you expect a great story from a Mario game, 
 but come on. They could&amp;#8217; ve at least altered it a bit more. But again, if you want good 
 gameplay, you will find it here. And the challenge is there, which is great.
  
  The game even contains a few good extras. The unlockable bonus levels for example are extremely 
 difficult. Remember the difficulty of the extra levels in the original game? Same deal here. They 
 are just as hard. Which isn&amp;#8217; t a bad thing. You will need to beat the game to unlock the 
 first set of levels, and get a certain high score on each level to unlock the second set. There 
 are also a myriad of mini-games, from the ones you play when you jump through the goal at the end 
 (which are exactly the same as the first game . . . Come on guys, you could&amp;#8217; ve at least 
 updated that) to a different set that you can choose from in the main menu after you select your 
 file. Collecting all the Character Coins in a world will give you harder versions of these mini-games. 
 The mini-games are fun for a bit but they are nothing special and can&amp;#8217; t be played multi-player, 
 which is retarded and makes them pointless.
  
  The museum is a cool feature, and you actually have to work to find all the creatures because they 
 are only added to the museum once you destroy them. So to really complete the game 100% you gotta 
 find all the enemies and kill them too, so that adds even more replay value. I only wish you could 
 read descriptions of the enemies. Just viewing them makes it feel pointless.
  
  So once again, like with Super Mario Sunshine, Starfox Assault, Pikmin 2 and others, Nintendo has 
 chosen to give us a sequel that is extremely similar to the first game . . . although IMO it would 
 be stretch to even call Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island 2 an evolution from the first game (which is what 
 I&amp;#8217; d deem Super Mario Sunshine) , this game is simply more of the same for those that loved 
 the original. Is it great? Sure. Is it a must-have? You make the call. IMO, it&amp;#8217; s not. 
 But the Fun Factor is high enough to make it a great rental.
  
  FUN FACTOR - 8.0
  Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS is a fun game. If you like platformers you will enjoy it. And if you 
 liked the first game you will enjoy it. But it only goes so far. There is nothing new here even 
 with the added baby abilities. But what&amp;#8217; s here is good, although not memorable in any 
 way, shape or form. Graphics - 8.0
  The graphical style is the same as the first game, however it lacks some of the cool effects that 
 were brought out now and then in the original game, such as the fuzzies that warped the world, 
 and the boss fight that had you moving around a spherical world. It even seems to lack as many 
 &amp;#8220; pop-up book&amp;#8221; styled fore-ground graphics. The graphics are good, but lack 
 any kind of wow factor.
  
  Sounds &amp; Music - 6.5
  The sound effects are good. Yoshi has all his signature sounds. But the music, as mentioned in 
 the text, is simplistic, understated, and horrible when compared to the original. The themes in 
 this game are entirely forgettable when all is said and done, and as a result the memorable-ness 
 of the game is lacking. They should have just included all the original tunes (there are a few, 
 but not enough) .
  
  Ingenuity - 7.0
  The game doesn&amp;#8217; t make any use of the DS&amp;#8217; unique abilities outside of the dual-screen 
 use to create a large playing field (mini-games that use the touch-screen don&amp;#8217; t count) . 
 And while that&amp;#8217; s cool, it doesn&amp;#8217; t change the gameplay any. All the mechanics 
 and all the level hazards, enemies, collectibles, and puzzle type elements are pretty much ripped 
 straight from the first game. Technically sound but if you&amp;#8217; ve played any Yoshi&amp;#8217; s 
 Island you&amp;#8217; ve seen it before. Is that a bad thing? Not necessarily, but it&amp;#8217; s 
 hardly original.
  
  Replay Value - 9.0
  Yoshi&amp;#8217; s Island DS has lots of replay value. The game is extremely challenging even if 
 you&amp;#8217; ll likely have over 100 lives throughout the entire game. But each and every stage 
 is challenging if you try to collect everything, which surprised me. The bonus stages are even 
 more difficult, and the hidden Character Coins and the Museum Mode add something more even beyond 
 getting 100%. The mini-games are nothing special and the Time Trail mode is useless. The game is 
 also only single-player, even in mini-games. But regardless, you&amp;#8217; ll spend a lot of hours 
 if you plan to finish it 100%.
  
  copyright 2007
  Josh Romero
  All Rights Reserved
  
  For a fuller version of this review, including pics and videos, go to my web-site at videogamesblogger 
 dot com and click on EZ Review Links to the left, where you will get a complete listing of our 
 reviews. Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Same creative art style and music. Long, creative levels and lengthy adventure. Usually 
 forgiving, but sometimes tough gameplay. The Bad: Probably too challenging for kids. Not much different 
 from the GBA version. Gameplay: Well, it plays ALOT like the Yoshi Island game for the GBA. It's 
 tons of fun, easy to control, and the levels are vast and creative. The main difference here is 
 that you can (and sometimes must) choose from a few different characters to control Yoshi. You 
 start with baby Mario and Peach, but soon have the options of baby Donkey Kong, Wario, and Bowser. 
 Each have their own abilities, and for most levels, you are required to switch them at least once 
 or twice to complete the level. If you're going for all the bonuses and secrets, expect to switch 
 them more often. Speaking of bonuses and secrets, these are hidden through the hidden parts of 
 the levels. Because the levels themselves are in fact, so huge, you can completely ignore them 
 if you want and just stay on the main track. Many times you can't tell which is the main track 
 though anyway, lol, so you end up getting to a few secret areas on accident anyhoo. But anyhoo, 
 most of you know the premise, Yoshi can swallow most enemies with his tongue, and either spit them 
 back out as a projectile, or swallow them and turn them into a dino egg for later use as a projectile. 
 Graphics: A noticable improvement over the GBA game, though stylistically, it looks very similar. 
 This is probably the best looking 2D platformer ever made. Sound: Sound effects are all here, even 
 the annoying cry when a baby gets knocked off Yoshi. The music is of course very upbeat, cute, 
 and appropriate for this game. Value: Probably the longest 2D platformer in existance. Tilt: Probably 
 the best 2D platformer for the DS. Up there with Super Mario World as an instant classic. This 
 is a MUST OWN for platforming fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gccg
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 28, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Oh man, where do I begin? Well, I played the first game in the series that was released in the 
 latter years of the SNES' lifetime, and absolutely loved it. That game is perhaps in my top five 
 of games that I love. The crayon-pastel graphics, the cute characters, the memorable sound and 
 deep gameplay (for a mario game) , really made this game stand out to me from the rest and has left 
 a lasting impresion on me.
  
  However, this game, not so much. The same great gamplay that had baby mario on yoshi's back who 
 could swallow enemies and throw eggs, was left intact. The first few worlds seemed to be laughably 
 easy, but the difficulty ramped up pretty quickly. The addition of multiple babies for more abilities 
 and more expansove and varied gameplay also were good modifications. Even though the gameplay was 
 still great, the graphics and sound are what ruined the experience for me a bit. The graphical 
 scheme was altered from the original game, and for the worse. All you see areplain cartoony visuals 
 that you would expect from an average side-scroller. The unique art style inherent in the first 
 game mysteriously vanished. It just makes no sense, because this new art style robs this game of 
 the charm the first game had. The sound is a tree-headed monster on its own. It was perhaps the 
 BIGGEST letdown of the game for me. I know, you might think that sound alone can't make or break 
 a game, however it is one of the biggest appeals that Nintendo games have for me. Every mario, 
 DOnkey Kong, Zelda, and Metroid game has top notch soundtracks and sound effects that really contribute 
 to a memorable experience. The stage tracks were not terrible on their own, but if one considers 
 the charm of the songs in the original game, these songs just feel like a crime. I will never forget 
 the catchy overworld, underworld, castle and boss themes from the first game. However, the themes 
 in this game are forgettable at best and downright shameful most of the time. I mean, if you actually 
 do by this game, take a listen at the castle theme. You will truly feel that it befits the stage, 
 NOT. I still can't get over the rediculousness of that theme. It alone is enough to condemn no-name 
 ARTOON to you-know-where. Complete lack of inspiration in the track composition.
  
  Bottom line, Yoshi's Island DS is a psuedo-faithful successor to its predecessor. However, the 
 alterations to the graphical style and the uninspired sound really hamper the experience for those 
 that played the original. All in all, this game is a pretty good platformer, that if you can get 
 past its presentation issues, can be enjoyable at least for a little while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_64
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 24, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island for the SNES, was a phenominal achievement for video games 
 at the time. The game offered an innovaitve play mechanic different from other games and Mario 
 platformers alike, brightly colored worlds drawn in fabulous detail that was akin to a children's 
 coloring book, and contained some of the best work of famed music composer Koji Kondo. Despite 
 the name Super Mario World being tacked on, and the number 2 placed to this PREQUEL of a game, 
 this game was better left as it's own, and now a sequel comes to one of the best platformers ever 
 to grace the SNES system, and it's on the DS.
  
  In the game, you play as Yoshi, and are accompanied along by Baby Mario and Princess Peach (Baby 
 Peach) . The game sets a story, in that Yoshi plans to stop the evil Magikoopa Kamek who's kidnapped 
 the tots. Now granted, the storyline truly isn't deep, special or any of the sort, but it's enough 
 reason to go through the worlds, carry on the game, and keep it moving with a purpose. First off, 
 the immediate changes you'll realize from the game, is the use of the dual screen aspect. This 
 game cleverly uses both screens on the DS, to add vertical height, and gives even experienced players 
 a bit of a challenge in the form of puzzle solving, traversing through levels and looking out for 
 danger, and overall just a new experience.
  
  The basic sets of moves for Yoshi is his signature ground pound, swallowing and turning your foes 
 into eggs, or spitting them out at another enemy, hover jump (which keeps him supsended in air 
 floating for a short period of time) and tossing eggs at enemies. However, now you'll come across 
 new babies, whom will offer to lend a helping hand to the game, and changes things up. For example, 
 Baby Mario can grab a super star and become invincible for a period of time,. running on walls, 
 and obliterating all in his path, even running on spikes, and Baby Peach will use a parasol to 
 allow you to jump further and catch strong gusts of wind. There are many more babies and their 
 abilites are used cleverly in the game, and it always changes the layout so that things are never 
 too repetitive.
  
  Now, the game itself is balanced properly. In the beginning, it's more a tutorial, and it's very 
 easy to gain extra lives in abundance. As the game progresses though, all those extra lives you 
 obtain will be meant for a reason, as the game can become more challenging to some people. Granted 
 though, it's possible to gain so many extra lives in the game, you may actually never see a Game 
 Over screen either, but it's still a good fun challenge, and even the, there's many reasons to 
 play the same levels over.
  
  The reason being is because at the end of every level, you recieve a score out of a 100. The only 
 way to get 100 points is to gather all the secret Red Coins, Flowers, and stars. Doing so unlocks 
 more hidden levels, and other bonuses to keep you playing. Now, the SNES game of Yoshi's Island 
 had some truly memorable, and atmospheric songs that just fit so well with the title. However, 
 it must be said that the music in Yoshi's Island DS, despite being very well fitted for the game's 
 atmosphere, and fits it very well, just doesn't feel up to par with Koji Kondo's musical score. 
 Some of the songs aren't too memorable in YI DS, and some were very decent. However, the sound 
 department of the game is excellent for the DS, and it does have some nice stero effects. It's 
 loud, cheery, and well made for the game and the DS speakers as well. All the sound effects are 
 mostly from the previous game, but sound a lot clearer and there's a great amount of new sound 
 effects as well that accompany the older ones, and they all sound alike and are hard to tell which 
 ones came from the 16-bit system, and which were made for the new more powerful DS in mind.
  
  Overall, if you love platform games, or are just looking for a new game to play, I'd highly 
 recommend Yoshi's Island DS. It has a ton of replay value, and lots of length to keep you playing, 
 that makes the game well worth the money. If you've never played the original game, (and why havent 
 you!? ) picking this one up won't keep you lost or anything. It's actually a great game to play 
 no matter what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Patch360
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  It feels like it was just yesterday. E3 2006 showcased many upcoming hits. This game hogged the 
 spotlight ( at least, for me ) . After months of waiting for this game, it finally hits shelves. 
 Is it worth it? Hell yeah!!
  
  Gameplay: YIDS plays exactly like the original. The controls are tight, and they feel perfect. 
 If you were good at the SNES masterpiece you will probably be able to jump right in to this. I 
 didn't even have to learn anything really, its simple and easy to learn. Even if you haven't played 
 the predecessor, this game will be a cinch to learn. Though ( not fully ) a cinch to play. Yoshi's 
 Island DS starts out basic and pretty easy, but the difficulty does indeed rise. This game is waaay 
 harder than New Super Mario bros. which is a good thing. There is also a lot more to do. Unlocking 
 all of the secrets is the replay value. Baby coins, and flowers are just a few of the games many 
 unlockables. Speaking of babies, you can control a wide variety of babies. Each has his/her own 
 unique ability. For example, Princess Peach can use her parasol as an enhanced flutter-jump, and 
 use it to float. There are nearly 60 levels hidden in this game, and most of them are extremely 
 long, to boot.
  
  Graphics: Wow. The graphics are even better than the first game's!! Mostly consisting of crayon 
 style sprites, the graphics are quite nice to look at and are just a sample of what the DS can 
 do. Some of the enemy sprites look really Gameboy , but overall everything is good. I preferred 
 New Super Mario bros. graphical style better, but this game is in a close second, for being the 
 most beautiful platformer on Nintendo's handheld.
  
  Sound: Sadly, the sound isn't even close to as good as its prequel. The sound in this game is great, 
 though it doesn't have the magical touch that the original did. The tunes are good, but just aren't 
 memorable. The SFX however, are greatly constructed and entertaining to hear. You have to admit, 
 though, the babies cries do get annoying. If you thought Mario was annoying, just wait until you 
 hear the others!!
  
  Replay: As I said, there is tons to do in this meaty platformer. This game has tons of levels each 
 consisting of many secrets even the hardcore may struggle with. I wish this had mulitplayer, but 
 its so big and challenging that it will keep your attention for a very long time. At least, until 
 you find something else to play.
  
  Buy, Rent, or Leave: If you are a platforming fan, this game is a must. Even if you are a fan of 
 the original Yoshi's Island or anything made by Nintendo, I encourage you to buy it. Rent it if 
 you are a casual gamer, or are a hardcore FPS fan. Don't even think about leaving this masterpiece. 
 Heck don't even rent it. Just buy the damn game!!
  
  Conclusion: I actually think this game is better than New Super Mario bros. and I know you some 
 of you agree. Please check this game out. For the sake of entertainment. Artoon has finally made 
 a great game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X3025
Rating: 7
Date: May 12, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE 
 to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read 
 review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review 
 a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE 
 to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read 
 review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review 
 a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE 
 to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read 
 review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review 
 a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE 
 to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read review a HAVE to read 
 review a HAVE to read review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graffiti14
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 9, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  OK once again it is going to be a short review because I just can't manage those amazingly long 
 winded reviews! This is a game that even if you think it is going to be the worst ever then you 
 are goning to find out the complete honest. Cool graphics, wicked sound and of course the story 
 is another Mario style one butseeing as everyone likes that who cares?! A game that to be perfectly 
 honest i thought sounded terrible, until my friend let me borrow it that is. When i started p [laying 
 it I began to think well it don't sound so terrible now... . Anyway the fact that it is pretty 
 2-D actually makes it more fun and more 'Mario style' if you know what i mean. I would recommend 
 this game to any of you who like Mario or who want to try it. Overall: amazing game and to be honest 
 I couldn't find and faults at all. Thumbs Up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckylucas11
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 5, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  Ok, at first this game was great, there was lots of things to do, it was fun but after a few hours 
 of playing it started to get repetitive. It also got alot harder and took ages to get past levels. 
 Its gameplay is awful, it gets too boring too soon.
  The graphics one of the only things im impressed with, they are colourful and attractive.
  The 
 sound was OK. JUst ok though
  It was not worth a penny so, dont get it unless you are an extremely big fan of Mario, Yoshi and 
 all of the others. The tilt was about average.
  
  So out of this review i'm telling you, DONT GET IT. It's soooooooo boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-Lafleur
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 28, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island DS is just as great as the original Yoshi's Island. The graphics are pretty and 
 gorgeous. The music was alright, nothing that really got my attention. The story, isn't anything 
 deep or special, which is what I usually expect from a Mario platformer, so it's not really a bad 
 thing. The gameplay is where it's at, there are many unique levels and enemies, and this game has 
 some more depth than the original, since now you have to use multiple babies in this game rather 
 than just Mario, which means you'll have to add a little more thought into beating a level, since 
 somethings you can't do without a specific baby. This game is actually quite easy, unless you want 
 to collect everything from each level, than it will become MUCH more challenging. So I recommend 
 this game to anyone who liked the first Yoshi's Island, any Mario platformer, or to anyone who 
 just likes platformers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2deluxe
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  It's been twelve years since we got a Mario platformer set on Yoshi's Island with Super Mario World 
 2: Yoshi's Island for the SNES. What is heralded as one of the best 2d adventure games of the 90s, 
 the game got a GBA port in 2002 with the well received Yoshi's Island: Super Mario Advance 3. Nintendo 
 was very smart for not pulling a half hearted port of the game when bringing it to the DS. Instead 
 of a re-release, Nintendo hired developer Artoon to develop Yoshi's Island DS. Yoshi's Island DS 
 is the direct sequel to the original Yoshi's Island.
  
  The simple plots follows the Yoshi clan as they try to save a group of kidnapped babies. Baby Mario 
 returns here along with the help of Baby Peach, Baby Donkey Kong, Baby Wario, and Baby Koopa for 
 another tour of Yoshi's Island. Much of the gameplay in YDS is similar to the original game. Yoshi 
 controls exactly the same and he must keep his baby in riding in back at all times. New to the 
 DS version is the addition of multiple babies with special abilities. Mario's special ability gives 
 Yoshi the ability the dash whilst holding the X button. Baby Peach uses her umbrella to make Yoshi 
 float or fly in wind currents. Baby DK has the power to knock out enemies and items when holding 
 the down button and X, he also can help Yoshi climb vines as well as swing in them. Baby Wario 
 (the least developed and poorest baby) can gather coins from afar as well activate magnetized platforms. 
 Baby Koopa can shoot fireballs but he disables Yoshi's ability to suck enemies and turn them into 
 eggs. You'll switch babies with the help of the stork station scattered across the stages, you'll 
 be switching them quite often to get to certain secret areas or to advance to your goal.
  
  The art and level design is similar to the original. But, since the game is now on the DS, the 
 game uses both screens to display levels. This allows the player to get a greater view of the levels 
 as well as find hidden areas or things to shoot at. It adds a great depth to the experience. You 
 can also adjust the camera to peak up or down on what's going on in the stages. The game has almost 
 ZERO touch screen features outside of the stage select screen and a few of the bonus 1 up minigames. 
 The graphics look real nice with the vibrant colors (something that Nintendo is very good at) and 
 the less saturated levels. The crayon effect from the original (which makes things look like a 
 living art) is gone, I personally kind of miss it, but, it does not kill the game experience.
 
  
  What kills the game experience is simply the sound. If you have to play a video game with the volume 
 off, you know something is terribly wrong. The volume set to off is an instant 1. The game's nursery 
 rhymes and irritating cry of the babies is too much for a grown man such as myself. I really heated 
 the sound in this game.
  
  On the complete opposite, wow what great level designs this game has. The main game is 40 stages 
 long, but unlike games such as New Super Mario Bros., the stages have no time limits and are far 
 more dynamic as well as long. The later 4/5 of the game has some real though (some frustrating) 
 level designs. The game may look like it was designed for little kids, let's see a 5 year old kid 
 try to beat some of these stages such as World 4-7. The game is quite hard if you want to go beat 
 all the stages. This leads to a high replay value. You may want to get perfect scores on all the 
 stages, or try to complete them as fast as you can with the game's unlockable Time Trial Mode. 
 10 stages are hidden too and these 10 are by no means easy. Just trying to pass them without regard 
 to trying to get perfect scores is quite a test. It is this attention to depth and difficulty which 
 makes this game really great.
  
  Want a 2d platformer that will last you a while? Yoshi's Island is for you. There are lots of things 
 to do hear and you will get tested as you deep in to the game's hard levels. There are no multiplayer 
 mumbo jumbo here, just a a genuinely exciting, fun, well thought, and challenging platformer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorEggman
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 26, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game keeps alot of the main elements the first one had. You play as Yoshi with a 
 baby riding on your back. If you are injured by an enemy or hazard, the baby will float away in 
 a bubble as a timer counts down. If you don't get the baby back before the timer reaches zero, 
 the baby will be taken away to Bowser's castle. Jump around, solving little puzzles, overcoming 
 some fun platformer challenges, while stomping, eating, or throwing eggs at your foes. The goal 
 is to reach the end of the stage. Sounds pretty much like the first, right? Well, it is. However, 
 there are some new twists. Some good, and some bad. As for the good: Five different babies are 
 met along the way. If you stop at a Stork sign, you can switch off to carry a different baby, which 
 has their own special skill. Mario allows for fast running speeds. Peach can catch gusts of wind 
 with her umbrella in order to lift herself (and Yoshi, of course) up to high, far away places. 
 DK (Donkey Kong) can climb ropes and vines for you, as well as use a charge attack to take out 
 any vulnerable foes in your path. Wario can attract metal objects, including coins, boxes, and 
 platforms. And last but not least, Bowser Jr shoots fireballs instead of letting Yoshi stick out 
 his tongue. Too bad only one fire ball can be shot at once. Aside from that, all of the babies' 
 skills are a pretty neat feature. Also, the Yoshi's rarely transform into vehicles. (Yosh!) The 
 bosses are pretty fun or interesting to fight but are too easy.
  
  But, as for the bad things which make the game feel unfinished or just plain bad: There's a lack 
 of great gimmicks which the original had, and they are not replaced with enough new ones. There 
 are only 5 worlds which you must complete, but there are unlockable stages in each world. This 
 makes the main game too short. When you defeat a boss, you're sitting there thinking, What? ... 
 That's it?? instead of, Alright! That was cool! Between your 2 screens is a good-sized gap. If 
 you try to aim your egg upward to hit an item above you, the gap sometimes acts as a blind spot 
 so you cannot see where you want to aim. Such a simple, yet annoying flaw. How could they miss 
 that? This is a bad problem on those stages where the camera moves on a set course and you must 
 keep up with it or you'll die. There are quite a few of these types of stages. These blind spots 
 will cover hazards or enemies which you must avoid, but if you cannot see them, you're bound to 
 run into them! Also, some enemies appear out of nowhere, pushing you back, as you lose the baby. 
 You run back for a secoond so you can get your baby back, but as you run off, the same guy re-appears! 
 These re-appearing and vanishing enemies can be a real frustration at times. Basically, this game 
 is lacking in those finishing touches which made the original game into a Nintendo masterpiece. 
 It may not sound that lacking in this review, but trust me, the game still needs some work. I can't 
 even list all of the little, yet noticable things it's missing.
  Now for other stuff: The minigames are alot more wide-open, rather than being confined in a small 
 room all of the time. The bonus challenges are pretty much the same. There's a museum... well, more 
 like a zoo. In this zoo , you'll be able to safely observe every enemy from this game. They can 
 be fun to watch, or even interact with.
  
  Graphics: As nice as ever. The colorful, cartoony look makes the game a beauty to behold. If only 
 the gameplay was just as good. One downside to the graphics is the DS Lite screen. You know how 
 DS Lite leaves after-images behind moving objects? (known as screen display lag) Well, this makes 
 things a little blurry-looking while in motion because nearly everything is outlined with black. 
 But the vivid colors look far better than they do on the original DS. When you beat bosses, there's 
 no special-looking magical explosion as you watch the enemy fall into defeat. Either the boss disappears 
 quickly, or something not-so-spectacular happens. Some of the animations don't even move smoothly 
 like they did in the original Yoshi's Island.
  
  Sound: The music is nothing special, but it does have a happy, cute feel to it. Again, this game 
 is seriously lacking in tune variety. The sound effects are perfect! You can hear gimmicks creak, 
 or make other noises. The old sounds from the original sound much nicer now.
  
  Result: This game isn't as good as the original, but is a fairly decent platformer for those looking 
 to build up their DS game collection. Mario and Yoshi fans must own this game, and platformer lovers 
 (like me) should definitely look into this. If you don't have Yoshi's Island on GBA or SuperNES, 
 I reccomend you buy that one first, because it'll make this game more familiar to you, thus making 
 your gaming experience more enjoyable. I only wish this game was truly complete like the original 
 was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This review may be bias because I wasn't a huge fan of the original. The gameplay of the original 
 was good and was a nice departure from other Mario games. However there were a few things that 
 bothered me then that still bother me now. Yoshi as a character is great, but having a whole island 
 of Yoshi's takes the charm out of the whole character. I enjoyed that Mario rode on his back and 
 that he floated in a bubble when hit, but the fact that yoshi is pretty much indestructable and 
 the flutter jump have always bothered the crap out of me. With that said, Yoshi's Island DS stays 
 true to that aspect of the original. I almost stays too true. The game takes very little if any 
 advantage of the DS unique design ideas. This game could have easily been released on the GBA and 
 it would have only suffered minimally. There is only one real departure and that is the addition 
 of new babies and the different abilities of those babies. Other than that it is really a direct 
 sequel and copy of the original. There are still the flowers to collect, the hidden red coins and 
 the challenge of getting 100 points in every level. The task of finding of all these really seems 
 more like a chore than anything, unlike the golden star finding of New Super Mario Bros. Overall 
 its a good game and its a great game if you liked the original, but look for anything new and amazing, 
 all you will find here is old school. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sykil
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Some professional reviewers have been a bit unnecessarily harsh on Yoshi's Island DS, which upsets 
 me a bit. I mean, there are a few things that are grating about it, but some of the reviews have 
 been strictly unwarranted, given all of the things that this small-screen sequel gets right.
  
  Let's get the bad over with. The music on this game is horrendously lackluster. It really sucks. 
 Which is sad seeing as the original had great character. Also, the game is a little too easy. Getting 
 to the last world is a breeze, and though the last world is really quite difficult, the game could 
 still use some improving in this respect.
  
  The graphics have a tad less character than the original. I guess it's warranted, seeing as it's 
 a small screen, and adding the big textures from the original might not work. However, it's still 
 a loss, but hardly a big one.
  
  But the gameplay is improved, believe it or not! I mean, Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island is 
 pretty much the best platformer you can get your hands on, and what the DS sequel adds in gameplay 
 elements the original makes up for in better level design. Still, there' s no denying how great 
 the gameplay is here, or how fun it is to play.
  
  Unfortunately, sound does play a large part in a game's experience. It can make otherwise lackluster 
 games seem like masterpieces if done right. If Yoshi's Island DS received a soundtrack anywhere 
 near the quality of the original's, there's no doubt that it would take this game through the roof.
 
  
  The game that Yoshi's Island DS is ultimately compared to (besides the original) is the earlier 
 New Super Mario Bros. To an extent, it bothers me that New Super Mario Bros. gets better reviews 
 because, honestly, Yoshi's Island DS is the better platformer. However, the overall experience 
 can't be near as good without a solid soundtrack, and I think slightly brighter graphics would 
 have helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VaDeCosta
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  You have a great platformer game with easy yet intricate gameplay. Dozens of levels to work at. 
 An intricate form of using different babies which creates diversity to the levels and allowing 
 secrets and different paths to be discovered. We have here a perfect follow up to its former game. 
 The graphics have a nice artwork / crayon look about them and just look all in all pretty sharp. 
 Breezing through the game can be accomplished rather easily, but actually taking the time to score 
 100% on every level leaves a true challenge for the hardcore gamer. Despite the lack of multiplayer 
 gameplay there really isnt much negative to pin on this truelly enjoyable game. If you own a DS 
 you really can't go wrong with Yoshi Island DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smb333
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  i think yoshi island ds is a the best yoshi island game so far it is one of the best platformers 
 to date. nintendo have created a piece of brillance as this game is fun and highly addictive as 
 it can suit the taste of anyone at any age. i have found this game very entertaining i think it 
 is better than the first than the first but you people may think different. you can control yoshi 
 with 5 babies like baby mario baby peach at the start but unlock more as you progress through the 
 game. i given this 9.4 as its fun for anyone. cant wait for the next. GO YOSHI !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schoolsucks2005
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game a little and I did like some of the elements to it, but I don't understand 
 why this game scored a 9.1... that's even more than some of the better classics out there. This 
 isn't a bad game, but certainly not the best one in my opinion.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for a DS game and have potential. They are pretty cartoony and fit 
 in for a Mario game since the Mario franchise is light-hearted. The gameplay is good, but can get 
 a little too repetitive at times. Like jumping and swallowing everything in sight. Collecting those 
 flowers can be a big pain, especially when you have 4/5 of them and can't seem to find the other. 
 The plot is the same as always. Kamek kidnaps Baby Luigi and Yoshi and Baby Mario have to go through 
 different levels to save him. Really, all Mario games have that kind of plot which gets a little 
 boring sometimes, but still okay in doses. A good thing about this game is that you get to play 
 as different coloured Yoshi's and get to switch babies who all have different abilities. Like Peach's 
 Umbrella to get to different heights and Donkey Kong being able to climb vines and ropes. The music 
 in this game is catchy, and it goes well with a Mario game. The sound effects are also good, but 
 the babies' cries are really... REALLY annoying, especially Peach's. It kind of puts you off sometimes. 
 This is a nice game which has good replay value and you can play it over and over, but I really 
 think this game is overhyped in many ways. It may be good, but certainly not brilliant like some 
 people may think. But then again, that's just my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 2.2
Date: Apr 12, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  ok first off, I borrowed this game from a friend expecting it to be excellent with all the good 
 reviews its gotten but it wasnt. It was just awful and boring. From gameplay to sound, it sucked. 
 Graphics were ok but I still didnt like it. I dunno if its something wrong with the game or if 
 my DS Lite has sound problems but the sound just sounded so simple and boring. Gameplay, I thought, 
 was going to be the greatest but it wasnt. Its just boring. The enemies were pathetic and its too 
 easy. I think its almost impossible to lose on that game. I finished a whole bunch of levels in 
 an afternoon already. Not good value at all, I m glad I just borrowed it and didnt buy it. I returned 
 the game back to my friend after 2 days. If youre planning to buy this game then I would suggest 
 you borrow it from a friend or rent it. Then if you like it then buy it. But I really dont understand 
 why people like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1yodsyo1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island DS is a game with comparisons to the original for the SNES. The controls flow easily, 
 and the 4 new babies make a nice addition. The levels can be irritating ( i got mad at one level, 
 5-6, for its almost impossible platforms) , but most of them are fun enough to play over and over 
 again. I questioned Wario's ability to attract metal; it sometimes didn't detect magnetic objects 
 above or below him, but otherwise all abilities were really woven into the gameplay. Special abilities 
 were there too, with Yoshi turning into a helicopter, a mole, and a submarine. They could have 
 added more levels containing these abilities though. Another diappointment is that the are to few 
 levels (50 in all) . Minigames lack creativity, and there is no avalible Download Play. Still, the 
 replay value is very high, with 10 secret levels to beat. Overall, Its a solid classic with minor 
 problems that could have been fixed.
  
  Score: 9.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 5, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island was a great game no matter what system it was played on. Yoshi's unique abilities 
 and the charming graphics and sound effects, along with large and interesting levels, were enough 
 to propel the game over all other recent platformers. Now Yoshi's Island DS has come along, and 
 while some of the magic of the original game is less prevalent, it's still a charming and at times, 
 very fun adventure. With recent platformers such as New Super Mario Bros. raising the bar substantially 
 for platformers, I can see why Nintendo felt the need to include multiple babies in YIDS. Like 
 the different types of mushrooms in NSMB, the different babies each give Yoshi new abilities and 
 are used in both platforming and puzzle solving. While switching up the babies gives certain portions 
 of the game a new lease on life, it can also be a bit frustrating at times if you find out later 
 on in a level that you need a certain baby to get to a secret area and you need to backtrack for 
 a while to get to a baby exchange point. The gameplay is pretty average. Yoshi can run and jump, 
 as well as perform a hover jump and a butt slam. What makes Yoshi's platforming games unique is 
 the fact that he can eat enemies and turn them into eggs, which can then be thrown at enemies or 
 switches. This, along with the variety of babies, keeps the gameplay from feeling stale. The graphics 
 are typical Yoshi's Island. They look like they were taken right out of a children's picture book. 
 While the graphics are warm and inviting, they also don't push the DS at all. The sound is generally 
 good, with catchy beats playing in the background at all times. When you lose track of your baby 
 is a different story. When hit, all of the babies (especially Peach) emit an ear-shattering shreik 
 that is honestly quite annoying. Despite the annoying baby shrieks, Yoshi's Island will keep many 
 playing for hours and hours. There are tons of things hidden in every level. There are five flowers 
 in each level, as well as stars and coins to collect, and minigames to unlock (some of the minigames 
 are pretty fun, and some can get old pretty fast.) Yoshi's Island should please many fans of the 
 original, and indeed it is a very charming adventure, but while playing it I just couldn't shake 
 the feeling that something was missing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easydisplayname
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island DS is an exclusive 2D plat former for the Nintendo DS that mimics the style of the 
 original Yoshi's Island on the SNES. The original Yoshi's Island outdid itself as a terrific side 
 scroller back in the day with its unique style of graphics, great music, and well performed game 
 play. The DS version follows up with this formula of gaming in a portable system with new features.
 
  
  What makes this game so special is how much there is to do. The difficulty of the game is variable 
 depending on what you are trying to accomplish to beat. The game makes for a quick pickup for many 
 people where you can play one level, beat it and put it down. For people interested in a long game, 
 you can complete the whole game collecting all the items that you can. With 50 levels to play and 
 extended play at the end of the game, there is much you can be doing. The game play of Yoshi's 
 Island DS improves upon its predecessor with new features including new playable baby characters 
 that opens the door to new game play. Certain babies will give you unique powers that are required 
 to advance further in the game. New babies mean new abilities and as you progress through the game, 
 you will just just that, new babies. This keeps the game play fresh throughout the game. In addition 
 to this, being able to pick up the game, play a level and quit becomes is very doable in this game. 
 Item collecting in this game is apparent in this game as during and after beating this game you 
 will find yourself collecting the red coins and flowers in each level. The only downer in the game 
 play is how its still almost identical to the SNES version, despite being a whole name game and 
 with new baby abilities. The graphics in this game are a little bit of a let down. Although it 
 meets the standards of the DS, it does not live up the SNES' Yoshi's Island. The clean style of 
 the graphics are perhaps too clean. The crayon-style of the game is still visible however toned 
 down which drops the creativity of the game a bit.
  
  The audio department is probably the most disappointing part of this game. The music often seems 
 misplaced and childish compared to other music tracks on other games. It almost feels liked the 
 music was slapped on at the last second. The sound effects hit it right, despite the noise of crying 
 babies being irritating at times however.
  
  Overall the game, despite its faults, the game provides a different experience for people not familiar 
 to the SNES version and veterans a new taste of a game made years ago. It may not live up to the 
 side scrollers of the past but it is a fun game that will keep you entertained for at least 15 
 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white143papi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 15, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Well here you are again (Yoshi) minding your own bussiness when a baby falls on you. Mario found 
 his way on to Yoshi back and they need to save Luigi. This time around you have other babies with 
 unique abilities. With baby Mario you are able to dash (wow this totally amazine... [sarcasm] ) , 
 baby Princess Peach you are to glide through whatever direction the wind blows, baby Donkey Kong 
 is able to climb up vines and chains, swing on rope, is able to tackle and when throwing an egg 
 is able to get one hit knockouts to none boss enemies (to me he was the most usefull of all babies) , 
 baby Wario is able to make metal come to him like coins or iron boxes, finally baby Browser is 
 able to shoot fireballs which melts ice but Yoshi isn't able eat enemies to make eggs. However 
 you do not get all of this babies at once baby Wario and baby Browser get the last to chapters 
 while Baby Mario, Baby Peach, and Baby Donkey Kong will be with you through out the majority of 
 your journey. The fun thing is you need a specific baby to get through a level and if you don't 
 have the right baby you have to past that level all over again (which at time gets fustrating too) . 
 All the bosses are unique so that the way you defeated a boss earlier won't apply to next boss. 
 The weird thing was that there was no use of the touch screen which I think is due to the failure 
 of the other Yoshi title which they tried to avoid. This is a fun game which at some point have 
 your scratching your head which made me think how can a kid beat this (no offense to the people 
 younger than I) . This is a great game for all Yoshi and Platform gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  The Good: It's essentially the same as the original Yoshi's Island, which is a good thing; bright 
 and fun visuals; lots of levels and stuff to find; different babies add variety.
  
  The Bad: Uneven difficulty level is easy at one moment and punishing at another; multiple babies 
 adds too much complication to finding everything; levels are too large; soundtrack is mostly annoying 
 or overly subtle.
  
  Yoshi's Island holds a special place in many gamer's hearts. It was a very original game late in 
 the lifetime of the SNES from the brilliant mind of Shigeru Miyamoto, and it had a unique art form. 
 It was rereleased on the GBA with moderate success.
  
  While Yoshi's Island DS is not the first follow-up to the original, it is the first to come close 
 to recapturing the spirit that made the first one so good. Unfortunately, due to an obscenely high 
 difficulty level and tons of irritating little quirks, it just doesn't live up to the pedigree.
 
  
  The game is really cute looking. For the most part, it gets the visuals down pat. It looks a little 
 less hand-drawn than the original, but it still is bright and colorful. The music is a bit irritating 
 at times, but it's okay for the most part.
  
  The gameplay is solid and it works, for the most part. Unfortunately, it's really, really unforgiving 
 and tough, especially if you want to get all of the red coins, stars, and flowers. Good luck with 
 that. It's so frustrating it often feels like a chore rather than a game. Luckily, extra lives 
 are generously given out, but they have little purpose anyway.
  
  It's just too bad the difficulty is so unbalanced and the atmosphere isn't as good as the original. 
 If it could have gotten these things down, we would have a masterpiece on our hands. But we don't, 
 and it's sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niptuckSean
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  In my childhood, there were no SNES games that could even compare with Super Mario World 2: Yoshis 
 Island, and now, the long-awaited next game has hit the DS. I was ecstatic when I saw the new Yoshis 
 Island game, and bought a DS with the sole purpose of playing the game, boy was it worth the money. 
 Since I havent played YI in a while, this game was quite refreshing though the argument can be 
 made that its basically the same game  if it isnt broke; why fix it?
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Almost the same Yoshis Island game play I have come to love in my childhood, 
 only this time there are five unique babies to choose from, each with their own abilities, which 
 kicks things up a notch, and was a nice touch. You still hop through around fifty new, lengthy 
 stages that provide quite the challenge if you are reaching for 100% completion on each stage. 
 The reason why I always loved Yoshis Island more than other Mario games was because not only have 
 the stages been longer, but there are also things to collect in each one; you need to collect five 
 flowers and twenty red coins in each stage  you must also try your hardest to take minimal damage 
 through the stages. With all of the regular Mario games you have stages that can last around 10 
 seconds. There are also a plethora of interesting bosses, (some recycled) around 10 or so, including 
 the Hectors Reflector boss battle where the bottom screen is a mirror. The platforming aspect 
 of the game is just as strong as ever and can provide countless hours of fun.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  The graphics are very colorful which is to be expected, but they are also 
 cleaned up and not so much like the originals. This could turn some of the past fans off a little 
 bit, but definitely doesnt retract from the amazing experience the game presents.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  Most of the stage tracks are ostensibly varied alterations of each other and 
 older tunes, which is definitely not a bad thing. Otherwise most of the sounds in the game are 
 recycled from previous titles, which, again, is not a bad thing. Altogether the sounds provide 
 an gripping experience, for younger and older audiences.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  You will most likely be able to pull countless hours of game play out of Yoshis Island DS, without 
 it losing any of its fun or charm. Most individuals will probably want to, or attempt to, get 
 100% completion on every single stage which will take awhile  but does not get the least bit tedious. 
 On top of this, there are mini-games and special stages to unlock for the more you complete. Also, 
 there is a Time Trial mode, that will have you competing with other people, or yourself, to see 
 how fast you can blow through some of the levels.
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  
  Yoshis Island is one of (if not) my favorite series in the history of video games. Ever since 
 I first laid hands on the original, I was whole-heartedly captivated by the experiences it brought 
 me. The next installment to the game was just as promising, expanding my love for it. The greatly 
 scaled stages and environments keep me coming back for more, and it is always a blast trying to 
 achieve 100% game completion. This game is for people of all ages, and people of all tastes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Hi there, Im going to be reviewing my second favorite DS game yet, and my DS Best of 2006 Yoshi 
 Island DS.
  
  Yoshi Island DS has you once again on Yoshi Island helping Baby Mario rescue his friends trapped 
 by Bowser. But this time Baby Mario isnt the only one that will be riding on Yoshis back. Eventually 
 Yoshi will be able to carry Baby Peach, DK, Wario, and even Bowser Jr. Combine this baby changing 
 mechanic with great level design then you have a game that screams AAA.;)
  
  Once you start the game it will go to a quick cut screen on Kamek dropping Baby Mario directly 
 on Yoshis head. But this time it brings the stork with Baby Peach in its beak. And thus are adventure 
 begins to save the babies that Kamek is stealing. In Yoshi Island DS you will go from one level 
 to the next similar to other Mario games, but Yoshi Island DS doesnt have an overview map you 
 can explore. Once you choose which level you wont to do, you can only choose one at the begging, 
 you will start the level. Every level you start of with 10 star points, which are you health basically. 
 Whenever Yoshi gets hit by an enemy the baby his carrying will fall off Yoshi and start floating 
 in the air in a bubble. For every second you dont get the baby back the more they cry, which is 
 very annoying, and the more star points you lose. Once the star points hit zero Kamek will fly 
 down and still Mario and you will lose a life. The bad thing about this is that it is almost impossible 
 to lose all you points since they will automatically regenerate to ten if you have less then ten.
 
  
  Star points are not only good for your health, but they are vital to add to your score for the 
 level. In each level you will have to collect star points, flowers (they float in the air, you 
 cant actually go around collecting flowers :lol: ) and red coins to get a maximum score of 100. 
 This scoring system adds a lot of replay value to the game. In fact, if you get 800 points overall 
 in the world you will unlock stuff in the game.
  
  Enough of the story and scoring system, lets get to the gameplay! Yoshi does what you would expect 
 he would do. He can walk, run, jump, throw eggs, etc. This is no different they past Yoshi games. 
 What is unique here is when Yoshi has the new babies on his back. For example, Baby Peach allows 
 you to float in jet streams, and DK lets you climb vines. These abilities add a lot to the formula 
 and helps make the game seem unique and very fun.
  
  Now then, Yoshi Island DS only has 5 worlds, and each world only has 8 main levels. This might 
 not seem like a lot, but it really is. Unlike Mario games, Yoshi Island DS levels are very lengthy 
 for a platformer. You can go through a level and not see half of the level. This is the real beauty 
 of the game; you can play each level over and over and never get bored. You will play the same 
 level numerous times to get 100 points and it will never feel tedious; the level design in just 
 amazingly good.
  
  It is not only the gameplay that makes Yoshi Island DS great, the hand drawn graphic style fits 
 the game perfectly and really helps the game. The graphics look like they were just painted on 
 the screen. The artistic style fits the game and Yoshi in general. The only complaint I have is 
 that the graphics arent as polished as the original Yoshi Island. But this is only a minor complaint 
 and shouldnt stop you from getting this great game.
  
  And last but not least I will touch on the topic of sound. Sound in videogames has never really 
 had much of a factor to me, and Yoshi Island DS is no exception. Yoshi Island DS doesnt have amazing 
 sounds or great catchy music like other Nintendo games. But then again, it doesnt need great sound. 
 The game is so good that you wont care if the background music doesnt sound as good as other 
 games. Im in no way saying the sound is bad mind you; just not spectacular.
  
  Before I rap up this review; I would like to thank anyone has actually read the review instead 
 of looking solely at the numbers. And if you are one of the millions enjoy the DS then you owe 
 it to yourself to get this amazing game. Not only does it live up tot the original Yoshi Island, 
 but it makes it feel new all over again. That is why Yoshi Island DS gets my Best DS game of 2006. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyfanatic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  One of my favourite games I own. You are Yoshi and have a baby on your back. You can switch babies 
 at stork stops that are in the middle of the levels. The babies will fall off when you get hit, 
 and then a timer goes down. The baby will scream it's head off so you must get the baby before 
 you get so mad at the screaming that you throw the DS out the window.
  
  The graphics are great but not the best.
  
  The sound is good but the screaming makes me bring 
 this category down.
  
  The game will take a VERY long time to beat 100% so this I give a 10.
  
  I enjoyed this game 
 very much and recommend it to any fan of 2D games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoot3232
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 17, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Idk why everyone is sayin this is such a bad game. Seriously, this Yoshi's Island is by far one 
 of the best Yoshi games. I mean, if you like any kind of Nintendo game, you will love this game. 
 It's basicly as good as, New Super Mario Bros. It's kind of a little to easy, but thats no reason 
 not to like it. And after 15 minutes you will know everyone of the controls and be able to play 
 and possibly beat the game. This game is truly a great game, and if you have any interest at all 
 in gaming go out and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  This was the game that a lot of us guys who played and loved the original version were hoping for. 
 This game keeps a lot of what made the first one so good only this time Yoshi and baby Mario have 
 aged in the past years. In the first game you have Baby Mario and Yoshi that is it.... However 
 New Babies have come. Baby Luigi is kidnapped by the evil Kamek. Not only can you play as Mario 
 but also Peach, DK, Wario, And Baby Bowser. each baby has different powers that helps out Yoshi. 
 Baby Mario can make Yoshi run really fast. Baby Peach makes Yoshi hover and float in the air with 
 her umbrella. Baby DK can climb walls and do a super dash. Baby Wario can move things with his 
 magnet. collect coins move boxes etc... Baby Bowser can Breath Fire but Yoshi can not swallow enemies. 
 There are different times in the game where you need to use each Baby at different times that give 
 that game a little bit of strategy. Where as you run through the level as fast as you can.
  
  Overall this game is really good i was hopping for a little bit more but overall I am Pleased 
 with the sequel to Yoshi's Island
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: If you liked the old one you will prob. enjoy this one
  Graphics: Beautiful 2-D Graphics 
 with a color book feel. Would be better if added a little 3-D into it
  Sound: Kiddy Music can get a little annoying at time but it reminds you of when you were younger 
 too
  Value; No multiplayer but its a pretty Long story and will take a bit to finish the game plus mini 
 games Overall: This game is nice when your in mood for a Yoshi Island adventure with cute little 
 babies of our favorite Nintendo Characters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolflink001
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  The game to me was really dissapointing! I expected it to be a great sequel but I was wrong! The 
 game starts off with Kamek the evil magikoopa and how he has hatched a plan to kidnap the babies 
 again. Luigi ends up being the princess peach once again which I thought was stupid. The games 
 music was horrible! Not as catchy as the first Yoshi Island. All the environments to me felt the 
 same. The game did not have the piszaz like the first one when it comes to environments. The Boss 
 fights were way to easy and to my surprise there were more worlds in the first one!!!! When you 
 finally get to Bowser's Castle, there are no detailed graphics in the background! Where's are the 
 windows? Where's are the pictures of Bowser's ugly mug? Where are the statues of him??? Where are 
 the curtains??? And most importantly, where is the checkered floor??????? A huge dissapointment 
 to me!!! C'mon! Nintendo threw this game together!!!! The added features suck and I don't like 
 the cleaned up graphics! This game is not one of my favorites! I don't recommend it to first time 
 DS players. It's way to easy and it sucks eggs! Why do people think this game is so great? It's 
 pretty awful... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultra_ST
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 10, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi's island DS is great game but it's not so great the music can sound pretty awkward to some 
 people it has some great features that make the game newer. There are different baby's which have 
 their own special abilities are new and there are now stork stops which then you can change your 
 baby's. It has some cleaned up graphics which make it look slightly better. It can get really frustrating 
 to fall over a ledge and try it all over again and how some buttons can only be pressed once. It 
 has a familiar but different storyline it still has how there are two bosses in each world. The 
 game play is the same. Some of the sound effects have changed but other than that the game has 
 a great value. There are now baby coins one in each level and when you collect them all in one 
 world you get a bonus game. The baby's have all different powers as you obtain new levels. You 
 will need great persistent and practice to get past levels and it be comes harder and soon you 
 will need loads of lives to live. You start of with 5 and you can get as much as you want. The 
 levels can be excruciatingly hard and tricky it has it's downs but is still a great game to have 
 with the original if you played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mirman13
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  i love this game it is my favorite game i have right now on ds i think it is brilliant in every 
 way possible from the concept of it to the kiddie graphics because everyone is a kid in the game 
 it is very fun the levels get real hard the game starts easy including the bosses but it gets way 
 harder and theres a load of extras after the game is beaten my favorite thing about the game is 
 the amount of concentration needed to be excerted in order to toss the eggs and switch off charectors 
 in order to use their special abilities which i too like the fact that peach has the umbrella and 
 mario has speed and dk has super strengh ect and in order to beat levels you have to use them all 
 together hey what can i say but its a magnificent wounderfull exciting game for the family to enjoy 
 alright peace have a nice day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack40
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I played Yoshi, well... a couple of times before as I'm a huge Mario fan and Yoshi is one of my 
 favorite characters. I definetly was looking forward to this game... because I was very interested 
 in the SNES system and heard that this, a sequel to a SNES game I wanted for a long time, so I 
 thought if I can't get the game (though there is a port for the Gameboy Advance, I hope I'll get 
 that) ... I might as well get the awesome sequel. And the sequel... overally... is... well... AWESOME! 
 Gameplay: Very, Very fun. If you're familiar with Yoshi, you expect him to swallow up enemies and 
 throw Eggs at enemies. And it is addicting. You can do the stomp on enemies thing from Mario platformers 
 which is fun but in Yoshi's case... I like swallowing and throwing eggs at stuff better when playing 
 as Yoshi. When you get hit, the baby you're carrying (Baby Mario, Baby Peach, Baby DK, Baby Wario, 
 of Baby Bowser) will fall off and you will have a time limit to get the baby back. Each baby can 
 do different for example... as Baby Mario you can use a Super Star and hop off of Yoshi and run 
 at super speed, run on walls, and when hitting a block with a 'M' more red blocks appear for limited 
 amount of time. One of Baby Peach's unique abilities are... when making Yoshi flutter in a area 
 that has wind rising up with leaves coming out... Peach uses her umbrella to go higher. Baby DK 
 can do a tackle dash that can break breakable objects faster than a egg could and he can climp 
 on vines or ropes OR swing on ropes. Baby Wario can use his Magnet to attract objects and Baby 
 Bowser can spit fireballs. Baby Mario is my favorite. The difficulty is hard... level after level 
 they get harder and harder. Still, I like a challenge. So, overall.... SUPERB gameplay. Graphics- 
 Pretty good for a DS game... I have no problem with them. Sound- The music is good... but the baby's 
 crying... is annoying. Still nice sound. VALUE- Reply Value is great. It keeps you busy for a long 
 time. OVERALL- If you are a Mario/Yoshi fan and loved the original Yoshi Island on SNES or the 
 port of GBA... you're gonna love this. One of the best DS games ever. It's in my top 3 ya know. 
 Great game, excellent job Nintendo and Artoon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilbert921
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  When this game was first announced I was very stoked, Yoshi's Island for the Super NIntendo and 
 later for the GBA is a platforming classic. One of the first 2d platforms where collecting became 
 an obsession.
  
  Scroll now to today with Yoshi's Island DS for the Nintendo DS. This time around Baby Mario and 
 the Yoshi's are back but they have brought more babies to the table. This time you get to play 
 as baby princess peach, donkey kong, bowser and wario. The story is fairly simple, you must rescue 
 baby luigi.
  
  The gameplay is the classic style that you remember, the control scheme hasn't changed at all and 
 Yoshi and his friends move just as good as always, with the new characters it adds a little more 
 depth to the game, every baby has his own special ability, peach can float longer, dk can climb 
 and charge, bowser can shoot fire and wario has a great magnet, and of course mario is fast fast 
 and super fast, you can also hover with yoshi the longest with mario on your back.
  
  The sound is where this game is ions behind the original. The first Yoshi's Island had tunes that 
 were stuck in your head for years, I still hum them to this day, the music in the ds version is 
 dull and lacking any pizazz from the original.
  
  The graphics also suprisingly don't look as good as the original, the cartoony style is still there 
 but the black outlines are gone from the DS version, while it looks cleaner it just doesn't have 
 that shaded look the GBA version had.
  
  The level design is teriffic if you have never played the original, for fans of the original alot 
 of the levels will feel familiar, almost tooo familiar. Still it is nice to play all new levels 
 with all new babies.
  
  This is a solid 2D platformer but lacking from the original version, the game is very easy to beat 
 just playing through but adds hours of gameplay if you want to collect everything, unlike the original 
 you never have the desire to find everything. All in all if you love 2d platformers you will love 
 this game but fans of the original may be very dissapointed like I was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickexile
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 5, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been much better. I usually like the classic 2D platformers, but not this 
 one. The reason for that is, this game is really boring. There is not much sense in the game; there 
 is no excitement, no thrill. This game is just really annoying. You most probably wont die in 
 this game by losing the baby; you will die by falling off of something, over, and over, and over 
 again.
  The story in this game is pointless. The game doesnt really go along with the story. The only 
 point is to save one baby. The other babies just come at the beginning of every world, they just 
 come, like your playing, their not there, and look, now their there.
  There isnt much more to say, I usually say more in my reviews if I think that game that Im reviewing 
 doesnt suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonHUL
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island DS is the sequel to Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, which is the prequel to 
 all of the Super Mario games. This is supposedly a sequel, but most fans of the original won't 
 be nearly as pleased as they were.
  The game starts out good, fun and easy to beginners. But once you get around world 4, the game 
 gets harder than Yoshi's Island's max difficulty, which was probably the final fight. The game 
 gets so incredibly hard, you'll probably need close to 50 lives to complete one level, and that 
 will get irritating to most people. But of course, there are hardcore gamers which will find going 
 through the majority of the game quite a breeze. To most though, it'll still be fun, but too hard 
 to keep you playing for a while.
  Now, there's more than one baby to choose from. You can switch them at stork stops spread throughout 
 the level. But most of the time, you'll be sticking with Mario. He is the best for new players, 
 while everyone else (besides Peach) is kind of an increase of difficulty by sticking with them. 
 Baby Donkey Kong, Wario and Bowser, aren't much of help overall. All Donkey Kong does is slow you 
 down and gives you the ability to climb vines, which is only helpful in a few stages. Wario is 
 practically a nuisance. Rarely used, he attracts metal objects to his magnet, which doesn't work 
 too well. And you would think Baby Bowser would be fun to use. You would be wrong. He slows you 
 down like DK and Wario, and disables your tougne, which is a problem for small enemies. You can 
 still get eggs and throw them, though.
  The music is kinda pleasant to the ears. To some, a little too pleasent. It's more easygoing than 
 the original, although it's not to get overexcited about. The sound effects, well, it depends on 
 which ones your talking about. Yoshi sounds as cute and funny as ever, although there is actually 
 no new vocals for him. The SFX of the enemies sound alright. Some are kinda weird, but most are 
 alright and shouldn't be a problem either. But the babies, just seem 3 times more annoying than 
 in Yoshi's Island. Baby Mario's cry is really short and blunt, and repeats fast, so you'll want 
 him to shut up most of the time. Try to not be in the harder levels with him, or you're ears will 
 bleed. Baby Peach's is the most realistic, but it's kinda loud and annoying. You'll get used to 
 her's though. Baby Donkey Kong, I don't even know what to say. I can't tell if he's crying or laughing 
 once he's flys off of you. It's that weird. Wario is just, VERY FREAKING ANNOYING. THE LOUDEST 
 AND ANNOYING OF THEM ALL, not even sounding original. Bowser's is probably the only good one. He 
 actually has the voice he has had in the previous games, so his cry is actually not bad. The graphics, 
 meh, they're good for a 2D platformer, but it could be better considering it's a DS game.
  So, to me, this game is too short and a little too hard to actually stand out as one of the good 
 Mario, or DS, games. Any hardcore Mario or Yoshi fan should go ahead and get it, but anyone new 
 to this kind of genre or game should just rent it. Most people like it though, so it's your choice. 
 And this review is my opinion, not yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffaddict6229
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 9, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game, but this game does nothing new to be original. Graphics- Good, 
 colorful and the levels are varied and it is enough to keep your attention.
  Gameplay- It is very similar to mario platformers. You run around as Yoshi and try to get to the 
 end of the level. This game does nothing new in my opinion, and can get tedious. The baby system 
 is interesting, but it can get boring going back into levels and constantly switch.
  Value- The game has lots of secrets after its story and there are a few unlockables.
  Sound- 
 the game has carefree fluffy songs and they are intresting enough, even though the sound can eventually 
 break up in a few spots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  Well let me begin by saying that, as much as I want to rate this game by itself, it IS a sequel 
 and that does mean that I will make comparisons to the original. With that being said, let us begin.
 
  
  Gameplay (9/10) : Honestly, this game retains most of what made the original so fun. That is actually 
 a very good thing. As Yoshi, you eat eat enemies and (depending on the enemy) turn them into eggs, 
 which you can throw at enemies or other things. Also is the baby on his back who you must protect, 
 and instead of dying (unless you fall on lava or spikes or other one hit kill things) you get stunned 
 and the baby starts to float away, and you must get him/her back before the timer goes to 0. You 
 can of course extend the time from the standard 10 up to 30 (seconds) per level, but in the middle 
 of a fast-paced level, it can cause complications (not in a bad way) . So that is the gist of it 
 really. Of course you need to get from one level to the other until you get to the game. What makes 
 this different from the first game is the addition of 4 new babies, and each of the 5 having a 
 special power (for example: Mario can make Yoshi run fast, Peach can make Yoshi hover longer during 
 his jump...) . This makes things interesting for a lot of the stages. It isn't too amazing of an 
 addition, though. It just doesn't feel like much after you get used to it after the first world. 
 That doesn't mean it isn't fun though. I will admit that overall, the new bosses make good use 
 of the two screens and are actually just as fun as the original bosses. That is one very strong 
 point about this game. Otherwise the game is pretty much the same old Yoshi's Island you remember, 
 which isn't a bad thing, but it could have used a bit more new so I could have given it that 10. 
 Oh yes, and to add is the story. It isn't amazing, it is there and that is about it. Then again, 
 since when do Nintendo Platformers need complex stories to be fun? One last thing to add is that 
 the game has no time limit (except auto-scrolling stages) , which means you can take your own sweet 
 time to play through each stage and explore, and this game does a wonderful job of rewarding exploration.
 
  
  Graphics (8/10) : Though the original looked AMAZING on the SNES and GBA, this game just doesn't 
 advance the visuals enough to give it the same 'WOW' factor that the original did. Mind you it 
 is still beautiful, with that same storybook feel. The bright and colorful visuals make everything 
 just jump out at you and really does grab your attention in a very good way. The dual screens manages 
 to be used for making the gameplay field taller than a normal game which can make for some interesting 
 moments of 'Oh I see a platform down on the bottom screen, I wonder if I can make it down there' 
 and then getting hit by an enemy in the gap between screens that you didn't see. That can actually 
 get a little annoying sometimes but it can be dealt with. So really the game looks great, but the 
 DS hardware is capable of so much more that the slight advancements aren't good enough to warrant 
 a perfect score here.
  
  Sound (7/10) : I LOVED the music in the original. The music here does nothing more than get the 
 job done. You will likely not be humming to any of the themes and you will likely not remember 
 any of them outside of gameplay. They are merely too simple and sometimes even sound more like 
 an ambience than anything else. I will admit that it makes you feel more like you are in a storybook 
 than the original, but it just isn't all that memorable. The sound effects are pretty much the 
 same as the original, though things sound a little more crisp. The sound is overall pretty good 
 but the music weighs this score down. Pity, because I this is probably one of the only Nintendo 
 Platformers' music that I did not enjoy.
  
  Value (10/10) : This is truly where this game shines, just like its predecessor. Initially you have 
 40 stages to go through, and more likely than not you will first try beating the game before you 
 go for the extras (like I did) . That will warrant about 6-10 hours of gameplay time, which is pretty 
 darned short, and it is generally pretty easy as well. It is the extras that makes this game a 
 joy to come back to. In every stage, there are 20 hidden red coins and 5 flowers hidden about. 
 Along with the number of seconds you have of baby-seeking (when you get hurt) time, this all adds 
 up to 100 points. 30 points if you have the maximum number of seconds to lose your baby (by getting 
 stars throughout the stage) , 20 points for the red coins and 10 points for each flower. Oftentimes 
 the coins or flowers are quite challenging to acquire, and that leaves room for a lot of time spend 
 in this category. To add to that is that as you get more points, each world has 2 secret levels 
 you can unlock, making the final total 50 stages. Need I mention that the secret stages are fairly 
 difficult to complete, let alone obtain 100% items in? Add to that the ability to play 5 OK minigames 
 on two difficulties and a Time Trial mode you can unlock after you beat the game, and you will 
 likely be coming back to this for quite a while. So is this game worth getting? Well that depends. 
 Are you patient and like platform games? Then yes. Did you enjoy Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island? 
 Then yes. Do you like platformers but don't have too much patience? Maybe, try it out first. Do 
 you hate platformers? Then no. Simple as that. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f8al13
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Well lets start off this review by saying this game is quite fun with being able to play with more 
 babies then the last game ex: Peach, Donkey Kong, Wario, and Bowser are all new babies that you 
 can play as. So as soon as the game feels like its getting old you un-lock a new baby.... Yay. There 
 are so many fun mini games that you can un-lock also. The graphics are very nice with colorful 
 enemies and environments. The sound is pretty good playing nice playful music. This game is for 
 all ages so don't worry about there being violence or anything like that, so even little toddlers 
 can play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:29 am PT
Review:  GOOD- Fantastic Graphics; Great level designs; cool music and sound effects; long story; long levels; 
 classical gameplay with new things added
  
  BAD- The levels drag when theres nothing to do;
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Its a classic gameplay desgin, 
 if you've been on a yoshi game or a mario game for the NES or SNES then theres nothing different 
 here, apart from its on the DS and with the DS it'll use its capabillities, the Double screen works 
 better with this game, with the top being the map and the touch screen being the Platormomers, 
 but the touch screen is'nt needed for this game, theres plenty of levels to play through which 
 are decently long without getting boring, its a simple game to play if you've just gotten into 
 games, its a pick up and play. And with it being a platformer, then its easier for you even more 
 as all you do is jump, jump and kill somome. its realy fun
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Graphics are the best part in the game, there exstreamly colourfull and the backgrounds and drawn 
 awsomly, the animetation in the game could'nt got any better, there smooth, colourfull and intresting 
 to look at as the level desgins are awsome
  
  SOUND:
  Sound is'nt the best bit, but it does have cool music to listen too and decent special effects, 
 and sound effects to go with it, but its not dcent anough for me to endure
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall, Yoshi's Island 2 DS, is the best in the series for Yoshi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheConscience
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  [THE GOOD] Improved graphics and gameplay - New babies for Yoshi to carry around - 2 new Yoshi 
 colors - Bigger and tougher bosses
  
  [THE BAD] The puzzles and item collecting are sometimes annoying and frustrating
  
  I have 
 been waiting for this game ever since June, and it has become one of my favorites, even though 
 the first is better. Anyway, on to the review!
  
  The controls are just the same as the original Yoshi's Island, but you can set them at the options 
 menu. += move, A= jump, B= lick, spit out, Y, X or R= aim egg, shoot egg, and L= lock the aimer. 
 These controls are fairly easy, and you'll get used to them if you aren't already.
  
  Gameplay is great, just like its previous game. Semi-challenging puzzles make this a fun and sometimes 
 frustrating game. Bosses are fun and they are all defeated differently, so it never gets repetitive. 
 
  
  In Yoshi's Island DS, you can unlock a total of 5 different babies: Mario, Peach, DK, Wario, and 
 Bowser. And if you beat the game, you unlock 5 secret levels, one for each world. Then if you get 
 a 100 on every level in a world, you can unlock an extra level.
  
  A good thing that improves this game from its proceeder is that in the secret levels you can be 
 black Yoshi and in the secret levels- white Yoshi!
  
  Well thats my review! I hope you liked it! This game may not be batter than the original, but it 
 sure lives up to its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WaterLord0
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi island ds is one of the easyer game you might think but even know its easy and it is one 
 of the best ds games out! In about 30 to 40 years this game will still rock to you. Even if u dont 
 like yoshi games this will make u change your mind she/he i recamend this game for people 10 and 
 older for sure. so stop sitting on your chair go buy this game and play it you will like i promise. 
 And even know i give it a perfect u will to like i said its amazing!!!! so just play u know you 
 want to play it rocks.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantebk
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island DS is a sequel to Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island, a Super Nintendo game from 
 the distant past. One of the things I love about the DS is the surplus of classic-styled 2D games, 
 and Yoshi's Island DS is no exception. The original Yoshi's Island was one of the greatest games 
 of all time, but the sequel is merely awesome. The premise is all the Mario characters are babies, 
 and Yoshi has to transport them to the evil Magikoopa's castle where he's keeping Luigi and some 
 other babies prisoner. Depending on which baby Yoshi is carrying, he has access to different special 
 powers.
  
  The game is both hard and easy. It's easy in that by the end of the game you'll probably have 150 
 extra lives. It's hard in that you'd have 250 if you hadn't died so many times. The boss battles 
 are easy. Accessing the secret levels is hard. The secret levels themselves are very hard.
  
  The weirdest thing about the game is the use of the dual screen. Not so weird that you can 
 travel from one to the other or that they allow you to see more of the world at one time, but that 
 there's a blind spot. The hinge of the DS is taken into account in the screens, so when your character 
 or an enemy occupies that space, they're completely obscured. Why? How? How much extra work did 
 it take to program that and why would you bother?
  
  This game is otherwise fairly easy to recommend, though I don't really need to. There is an audience 
 out there who love Mario games, and who love platform games, and they most likely already know 
 about Yoshi's Island DS and already own it. And for those who aren't interested, this game won't 
 change their minds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-very-best
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island DS is addictive, enjoyable and exceedingly creative throughout every level you will 
 proceed through in this entertaining platformer. While Yoshi's Island DS succeeds in many ways 
 in creating various unique worlds for you to explore, it fails to capture the excitement of its 
 predecessor.
  
  I still think Yoshi's Island on the SNES is one of (if not the very best) platformer out there, 
 so I knew it would be very difficult for Nintendo to come up with something as good although I'm 
 pleased Yoshi's Island DS was as good as it was. It's a great game in many ways and I recommend 
 it to anyone looking for an enjoyable platformer for the Nintendo DS that will last for a few weeks 
 or so.
  
  The gameplay is certainly interesting throughout this platformer. Artoon, the developers of Yoshi's 
 Island DS, successfully produce creative levels throughout the 5 worlds you will be able to explore 
 in this game. No level is exactly like another, they are all unique and due to this fact the game 
 constantly keeps your fingers glued to the Nintendo DS.
  
  The difficulty increases as the game progressives and it never feels too easy or too hard. The 
 earlier levels act as tutorials to newcomers and allow you to get a feel for the controls (which 
 are quite good and there are various options for you to customize them to your preference) and 
 by the 2nd world, the adventure truly begins.
  
  The story is somewhat childish, but that really isn't one of the main focuses of the game. You 
 soon forget about trying to save babies from the Evil Kamek and focus solely on the innovative 
 worlds your adventure takes place in. One of the main highlights in this game for me was the music. 
 It is perfect for this platformer and sounds brilliant on the Nintendo DS. The graphics are also 
 well presented and give you a strong sense of its predecessor. As for value, this game took me 
 a few weeks to beat, while I played perhaps one or two levels a day. Earlier levels in the game 
 take about 5-10 minutes to beat while later levels can be completed in between 20-40 minutes.
 
  
  All in all, Yoshi's Island is a terrific platformer and an worthy purchase for the Nintendo DS. 
 While my advice would be to pick up New Super Mario Bros. first if you've yet to play it, I definitely 
 recommend buying Yoshi's Island DS down the track.
  
  For those who have played the original, while you'll realize this game isn't as good, I still believe 
 you will enjoy it immensely as I did. It's just one of the titles that is unique, exciting, and 
 enjoyable all throughout the game. You won't get bored and it's great if you just have 5 or 10 
 minutes to play. It's also great if you want to sit down for even an hour playing it.
  
  Yoshi's Island DS is an enjoyable game, addictive throughout, extremely creative, and a worthy 
 addition to the already strong game library for the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Yoshi's Island DS (Also known as Yoshi's Island 2) successfully takes what was so great 
 about the original Yoshi's Island and at the same time uses some of the DS' unique features to 
 improve on the existing formula. If you played Yoshi's Island for the Super Nintendo or the GameboyAdvance, 
 then you know how this game works. You control Yoshi with the D-pad, jump with B, look upwards 
 by pressing up on the D-Pad, use Y to eat an enemy, and use A to shoot an egg. Yeah, sounds complicated, 
 but really it isn't. In fact, it is a wonderful mix of what you see in Super Mario games and a 
 new concept that works wonderfully. There are five large worlds to go through, each accessed through 
 a main menu screen. Just like the Mario games, each one has its own theme and its own popular enemies 
 like Shy Guy or Boo's. Of course, the way you go about getting rid of the enemies is something 
 different from the Super Mario series.
  In Yoshi's Island, you could of course just stomp on an enemy, or you could go one step further 
 by eating and essentially turning an enemy into an egg. At that point you shoot the egg by pressing 
 A, which will bring up a dotted line that you will have to line up with where you want to shoot 
 the egg. If you don't want to stomp/jump, shoot an egg at, or eat an enemy you could always use 
 one of the babies special abilities. An example of such would be Baby Bowser, whom shoots fire 
 from his mouth just like his famous King Koopa father Bowser. You will gain access to many different 
 babies that will come to your aid (which is ironic considering Yoshi is supposed to be coming to 
 their aid) , including Baby Mario, Peach, Donkey Kong, Wario, and Bowser. It is kind of unfortunate 
 that you can't switch babies at will during the game, instead there are stations where you can 
 change babies during a level. I suppose it would make the game a bit too easy if you could change 
 babies at will though...
  Yeah, as you can see the joy in Yoshi's Island is definitely the gameplay. The worlds are so interesting 
 to explore (and find secrets in) and go through that you rarely will get bored. In fact, Yoshi's 
 Island DS is believe it or not much more challenging than even New Super Mario Bros. Sure, overall 
 it isn't a game that will puzzle you for hours on end but it has its moments that will truly stump 
 you for a few minutes. To put things simply, this game is fun... without a doubt.
  While there isn't a multiplayer mode, there are a few minigames (which aren't really that great, 
 but at least they are there) to unlock and there is a Museum mode. In Museum mode you can go through 
 a museum and view all of the monsters and bosses you have seen throughout the game in branches 
 of different themed areas. It isn't all that exciting really, but like the minigames at least it 
 is there.
  
  Graphics: Yoshi's Island DS is perhaps one of the best looking 2D games in existence.... and I 
 don't say that lightly. The visuals are extremely colorful, and the artistic design is amazing 
 with a picture book like look. It clearly shows improvement upon the game's predecessor.
  
  Sound: The sound is surprisingly good as well. While there isn't too much Super Mario based music, 
 it still manages to bring some not-so-forgetful songs to the table. The main theme, which has a 
 unique sound of a lullaby (which is intentional considering there are babies in the game) . Most 
 of the level music is pretty bright and cheerful, but it would be nice if there would be a little 
 more variety to the music. For the most part though, the sound in the game is pretty good.... even 
 Yoshi's grunts when he jumps, which I am sure many of you are already familiar with even if you 
 have only played games like Super Smash Bros.
  
  Value: Value is actually kind of where Yoshi's Island DS is lacking. Sure, the game may take you 
 a couple of hours and brings a great enjoyable experience, but after you finish the game there 
 isn't a whole lot of replay value. The minigames are kind of dull, with little replay value, and 
 there is no multiplayer unlike the first game. The few hours you do spend going through the game 
 though, I can almost guarantee you that you will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameeer1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  People say that the original Yoshi's Island game is one of the best to be made. People may start 
 to think that its sequel, Yoshi's Island DS will be even better than the original! With its crayon-like 
 graphics, larger levels, and light, but pretty cool music, Yoshi's Island DS is a definite must 
 have for any Nintendo DS owner out there! The game starts off with the evil Magikoopa, Kamek making 
 a plan not only to attempt and steal Baby Mario and Baby Luigi again, but every single baby in 
 the world. He does this with the help of his little Toadie minions, but two of them drop a few 
 of the babies, thanks to a stork coming to the rescue. But unfortunately, the stork isn't successful 
 of freeing all the babies, as Baby Luigi is still in the hands of Kamek and his Toadies, but managed 
 to make Baby Mario and Baby Peach drop from the sky and land in the middle of the island. While 
 one Yoshi is taking a walk, he suddenly sees Baby Mario fall out of the sky and realizes that he 
 looks very familiar. The Yoshi's gather for a meeting (again) and are trying to decide what to 
 do with him. They end up agreeing to help and free the other babies from Kamek's castle, taking 
 turns carrying the babies along the way there. And this time, the stork decides to help the colourful 
 Yoshi's by carrying them in blankets and using very useful stork stops to swap them when you need 
 that babies help. At first, you can only use Baby Mario, but shortly you will be able to use Baby 
 Peach. And eventually, you'll encounter Baby DK, Baby Wario and even Baby Bowser to lend the Yoshi's 
 a helpful hand. Each baby has a different ability that helps Yoshi in a certain way. Baby Mario 
 makes these invisible 'M' blocks appear and also enables Yoshi to run faster through the level, 
 while Baby Peach uses an umbrella to make her and Yoshi go higher in the skies when they take to 
 special wind currents . Baby DK allows both the baby primate and the dinosaur to climb vines and 
 swing on ropes to get across far gaps in the level, Baby Wario has a magnet to attract nearby coins, 
 as well as metal boxes and platforms, and Baby Bowser can spit fire to get rid of enemies in your 
 way, as well as melt ice blocks to clear the path. Also, each baby makes the eggs Yoshi throws 
 behave differently. For example, while Baby Mario is on his back, the egg will bounce off walls 
 a couple times, and while Baby DK is on Yoshi's back, the egg will explode on contact, sending 
 out a short blast radius that can defeat nearby enemies. Just like in the first game, Yoshi can 
 swallow enemies and either spit them out or make eggs to throw at things. Also, there will be certain 
 areas where you will have to morph into some type of vehicle, like a helicopter, a mole tank, or 
 even a submarine to get you places. Basically, Yoshi's Island DS is similar to a side-scroller, 
 jumping and running from one side of the level to the end, while trying to find secrets along the 
 way. Other than the run and jump techniques that any character has in a side-scroller, Yoshi also 
 has the abilities to ground pound and flutter jump across short gaps, just like in the original 
 Yoshi's Island. The graphics and sound in this game are pretty cool, using crayon-like visuals 
 making this game a pretty sight to look at. The music in this game is in a word, cute, and sounds 
 very familiar with the original game, using basically the same instruments and making Yoshi's Island 
 DS putting you into a feel-good mood. Although the game can be short if you want it to be, getting 
 100% in this game can be very difficult, looking for all the 'character coins' in each level, as 
 well as all red coins, flowers, and star points. You'll need to swap babies a couple times in each 
 level and use their special abilities to get the high scores you want, if you are a perfectionist 
 of course. On top of that, the level are double the size of that of the original game, using both 
 the top and touch screens as the level, also making them longer to reach to goal. Although Yoshi's 
 Island DS is a great single player game, they took out the multiplayer function that was in the 
 previous game, which could've made this game even better with the mini-games to play with. But, 
 that won't really bug anyone, as Nintendo added a special museum to look at all the enemies you've 
 encountered on your adventures. Plus, everything else pretty much doesn't even make people thinking 
 about a multiplayer mode. To sum it all up, Yoshi's Island DS is one of the best games out on the 
 Nintendo DS. With unique visuals and music, new babies and abilities, and just about everything 
 else, Yoshi's Island DS is a classic you have to add to your game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogameman66
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  it has good graphics, good storyline, good starting movie even! and it has some twists and turns 
 along the way... id rather not say, cuz those peoples that want this game, im pretty sure that 
 they would rather the surprises of the whole game unleashed on them before they even have it. i 
 i give it a 9.7/10, cuz of what happened at the end of world 3... i didn't know that would happen, 
 but o well. its good to know, that every now and then, a good game is made, i mean out of all of 
 the 3-5 point reviews. it says i have to have at least 100 letters, and i do, so... yeah.... im 
 just killin some time and stuffs, and for peoples that want this game, just go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 94iceman94
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  yoshi island ds well it a great game u get 2 be yoshi but at the same time u got some one on your 
 back helping u out there is now reason u should hate this game it fun as double screen what make 
 it even cooler and even mini game and u get 2 vs boss and u got them shy guy what just will not 
 give up intill your dead but there easy 2 kill gulp down they go make them a egg that what i say 
 that will but them some where they can not et out of it a great came a very good game everyone 
 in the world should give this game a try trust me u will love it i did u should it a great game 
 i love it 1 of my fav game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JADavidson
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 30, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Im an experienced gamer, and this game is freakin' hard. Fun game, but beware, you will get upset 
 at multiple points in this game. At some points I pretty much want to break my DS. Enemy's respawn 
 when you pass them which is lame. At certain points in the game i've used 10+ lives to get past 
 various spots in the levels. Weak sauce! I expected much better from the 9.1 GS rated it. I'm interested 
 to see if anyone else has had such a hard time with the game. Don't get me wrong the game is pretty 
 fun but some points in the game can get extremely frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACID_RHANE
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 30, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Yoshis Island DS
  
  Unlike the New Super Mario Brothers, yoshis island DS actually has a story to it. It is set after 
 the first yoshis island on SNES, and the story is that the evil Magicoopa (witch) Kamek is stealing 
 all of the babies from their houses and of course mario, luigi, and peach are among these babies. 
 The stork then saves mario and peach, however they still manage to take luigi to koopas castle. 
 Mario and peach end up in the forest and thats where they meet up with the yoshis, and it is 
 then up to the yoshis to save the babies.
  
  The game is split into 5 worlds and each world has 8 levels. Along the way you will meat up with 
 a number of other babies who each have there own special abilities to get you through different 
 situations. The length of the game is very reasonable and although I didnt time myself, I was 
 playing it pretty much everyday for a few weeks. After beating the game 5 secret levels will be 
 unlocked (one for each world) and these secret levels are super hard. In each level there are 5 
 flowers, 20 red coins, and finishing with these and 30 stars will get you 100 for the level. If 
 you want to get 100 on every level (like me) its probably near impossible but Im going to try 
 and do as much as I can. Although I said that the game will be near impossible to complete 100% 
 the difficulty level is great because its beatable, but if your looking for even more of a challenge, 
 getting 100% sure seems like a big one. The graphics are just like the first yoshis island and 
 the game shares many of the same elements e. g. enemies. I really like the style of graphics, however 
 they are not 100% smooth so that kinda sucks. Also throughout the whole game you will not use the 
 touch screen at all, well actually you will look at it but it doesnt include anything which actually 
 involves touching the screen, and there is no multiplayer option either. Throughout the game you 
 will unlock some minigames, but they are kinda lame and I doubt that youll play them much. All 
 in all yoshis island DS is a great single player game, and its bigger and better than the first. 
 With its good graphics, sound, and gameplay it is one of the best DS games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D7ok
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Yo if its one thing i can say about this game is that its very addictive. If anyone has played 
 the first one you know that this one has most of the features from the first one but the left out 
 some of the features. For example you get to chose diffrent characters like Wario, Peach, Bowser, Wario 
 or Mario. All of these characters have diffrent abilities and some just plain out suck like peach 
 lol. One thing that i've noticed theyv'e changed are the watermelons and those are the funniest 
 things on the first on because the green on was a machine gun and red and blue were fire and ice 
 BUT!!!!!!!, they got rid of them but still its a fun game and i recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OlnyGuy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I hope everybody remembers the story of Yoshi's Island, because this one didn't change much. This 
 time, Kamek is sent to capture all the babies from the village where Mario and Luigi live. They 
 manage to capture Peach, Mario, Luigi, and some other well known Nintendo characters as babies. 
 A passing by stork kindly helps Mario and Peach by attacking Kamek's Toadies, making the babies 
 fall on Yoshi's Island. The Yoshi's debate on what to do and decide to aid them on their quest 
 to save the babies.
  
  Not much has changed here from the original game. Yoshi still has the ability to shoot eggs using 
 the cursor method, swallow and make eggs from enemies, and basically do everything he was able 
 to in Yoshi's Island. They have put in some noticeable changes that might disappoint some, and 
 cheer others up. This time, you have the choice of playing as different characters (that sit on 
 Yoshi's back) which all appear throughout different parts of the game. They are Baby Mario, Baby 
 Peach, Baby Donkey Kong, Baby Wario, and believe it or not, Baby Bowser. Changing from character 
 to character is done by Stork Stops located throughout the levels. When standing on a Stork Stop 
 switch, the stork will come by and allow you to switch characters by simply jumping up and switching 
 the baby. This is entirely new to Yoshi's Island and it is surprisingly fun to work with. The characters 
 all have special abilities which can be used during the level (Example: Mario allows Yoshi to dash) . 
 Without certain switching to certain characters, you may not be able to pass through a certain 
 part in a level. It is not really difficult to adjust to this character system and it actually 
 increases the fun of the levels.
  
  The levels (stages if you will) are much longer than the first Yoshi's Island had to offer. They 
 mostly consist of going up and down since the game tries to utilize the two screens for an advantage. 
 Sometimes, the space between the touch screen and the top screen may get in the way of game play 
 but it doesn't hurt the experience. One small detail that you may notice is that as you progress 
 through the level, the background changes color from morning, to dusk, and finally to night. You 
 also have the ability to morph Yoshi into different creatures like a Mole Tank or a Helicopter. 
 One noticeable flaw is they have left out our beloved items. No watermelon seeds, fire breath, 
 or any of that good stuff Yoshi's Island offered. Nintendo also decided to leave out the sequence 
 of Yoshi moving on to the next castle, after beating a boss. But they pay us back for omitting 
 those things with some fresh new bosses and enemies. I think that the overall game play improved 
 from Yoshi's Island. The character system, lengthy levels, and new abilities all add up creating 
 a very fun and enjoyable game. They're many other aspects to cover, but to find those out, you 
 will have to purchase and experience Yoshi's Island for yourself.
  
  Remember those good old Yoshi's Island graphics? They are colorful and radiant; looking like they 
 were hand drawn and colored with colored pencils. Well, the graphics here haven't changed much. 
 The graphics are some of the best 2D graphics I have ever seen. Everything from Yoshi to the background 
 is vivid and bright. Some new sprites were used for Yoshi and enemies and they look better than 
 ever. I personally prefer the old Yoshi sprite, but this one is much more detailed. The enemies, 
 new and old have smooth transitions and are presented with outstanding detail. The effects such 
 as explosions and animation are better than ever having smooth artsy type graphics. The backgrounds 
 have a pretty interesting new additions like animation. If you are looking for classic graphics 
 with some new flavor, you have found your game.
  
  The sound is very questionable. Yoshi's Island featured an array of fun music, each changing with 
 the setting. Here at Yoshi's Island 2, the music isn't very spicy (as I would describe Yoshi's 
 Island music) . When playing Yoshi's Island, I wanted to stand up and dance with the music. Yoshi's 
 Island 2 had no such effect on me. The music can repeat itself many times throughout levels. This 
 can get annoying at times. Those are the only noticeable musical flaws. One thing that made me 
 proud of Nintendo is that they kept the changing music on the level selection screen. (When you 
 finish a level by defeating a final boss, a new sound gets added to the selection screen music. 
 If you have ever played Yoshi's Island, you know exactly what I mean.) The music is original, its 
 calming, and it plays really smoothly. If you are a classical music fan, you might enjoy this game 
 more than a rock music fan. The sound effects are great, capturing the essence of Baby Mario screaming 
 for help or the crushing sound of Baby Donkey Kong smashing a Shy Guy with an egg. Sound wasn't 
 what I exactly expected, but it offers a good presentation.
  
  The controls are very basic. Selecting an egg shooting styles is again an option for players. You 
 may be able to chose a *HASTY* style and a *PATIENT* style. Controlling Yoshi is very simple using 
 the D-Pad and the X-Y-B-A buttons (L and R if you prefer) . Swallowing enemies to make eggs is as 
 simple as ever using the Y button to swallow the enemy, and pushing down on the D-Pad to make an 
 egg. Shooting egg's can be done with L and R or A and X. Using the R/A to activate the cursor, 
 and using the L/X button to lock the cursor in one place. Y can also be used to cancel the shooting 
 of the egg. Start is used to access a very simple pause screen that is very simple to used/navigate. 
 This games controls are very simple, even for fresh gamers. Right from the start of the game, you 
 should be jumping around the screen controlling Yoshi and the babies like a professional.
  
  If you are a sold Yoshi's Island fan, this game definitely will fit your taste. But if not, 
 I recommend checking it out because it will deliver loads of fun with many things to find throughout. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiffie
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 2, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This is, simply-put, fun at its finest. There are few games out there that mix retro style and 
 the awesomeness that is Dual-Screen without feeling gimmicky, but Yoshi pulls it off with finesse. 
 Although there are parts of the game where the dual screens are at odds with the player (it seems) , 
 this doesn't take away from a great gaming experience. GAMEPLAY: 9/10 This is a classic remade 
 right, in almost every sense. There is a lot to do, and you'll have a lot of fun doing it. The 
 gap between the screens doesn't hamper as often as it helps with aim. The only problem I had was 
 certain instances when there were areas unable to be seen due to inability to move the view higher 
 or lower on certain levels. All that you love about Yoshi's Island is back and better than ever! 
 
  
  GRAPHICS: 9.5/10 
  This game looks as reminiscent of the original as is possible with the smaller screens of the DS. 
 However, it would have been nice to see a more childish, coloring-book-inspired look. SOUND: 10/10 
 
  The background music for this game is quirky and cute and adds greatly to the atmosphere of the 
 game. Sound effects are true to the original, with a few new additions (Like Yoshi! and Ba-dump! 
 when the DS is opened and closed) . VALUE: 10/10 
  This is one of those few games that keep players coming back for more long after it's beaten. There 
 are hidden objects and character coins which can only be found with the right baby in tow. This 
 game can easily keep you occupied long after the last boss is singing his death knell! OVERALL: 
 9.6/10 
  This game leaves good impressions. It fails in few areas, and aims to please both the new gamers 
 who never had a Yoshi's Island experience before and those looking for a little Deja'Vu. Without 
 the replay value, this game would score a little lower, but not much. Even those looking to play 
 through only once will be astonished at the surprising depth this handheld platformer has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigabrowser12
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  You may be thinking a yoshi game? I'll stick with new super mario brothers! while that may be the 
 case yoshi island ds is still a fun platformer, but it is more a kids game the the mario bros of 
 course it is yoshi so there will be the swallowing, the egg tossing but at certain points on the 
 levels; you can swap the baby that yoshi is carrying, that may sound simple it is but each baby 
 has differnt abilitys, like for an example baby DK can swing on vines and and baby peach can open 
 her parasol she can ride gusts of wind! for a chidrens platformer like this it's hard it's not 
 as hard as some other games there are some minigames to unlock, none that good like turn as many 
 enimies possible into eggs, not that good one of the interesting things is the mueseum which is 
 more like a zoo. If you are looking for some fun that you can play when life get's dull pivk yoshi 
 island DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnakeIRye
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 8.0
  While Yoshi's Island DS is the perfect way to retreat to those simpler gaming days, the fun in 
 achieving that perfect score has been hampered by the difficulty in acquiring it. Of course getting 
 one hundred percent should , by all means, be a pain, it seems unforgiving and more difficult than 
 the original SNES version.
  
  Graphics - 8.0
  Cute and quirky, this game looks great for a 2d sidescroller. The only problem here, but a big 
 one nonetheless, is the deviation from the coloring book look. Instead of looking like a kids creative 
 dream, it looks more like a cookie cutter cartoon.
  
  Sound - 8.0
  Spot on for the effects, forgettable for the music. The effects are very light and whimsical, fitting 
 the mood of the game. (2.0 points off for the infamous unforgettable baby cries)
  
  Overall - 8.5
  Yoshi's Island DS still holds up very well next to the original, but with the 
 added difficulty, deviating graphics and forgetful music this version goes from outstanding to 
 just great. Oh yeah, where is, Touch Fuzzy, Get Dizzy ?
  
  Maybe next time Yoshi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowzafreak
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 24, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  Welcome to my review for the game Yoshis Island DS. As you know this game is like Yoshis Island 
 BUT you must rescue more babys than just Luigi himself. They include DK, Peach, Wario and... Bowser 
 [what?] . Yep you must be thinking why Bowser but it is Junior and for somereason he leaves his 
 dad and joins Yoshi but then he leaves Yoshi and goes somewhere else. Some levels maintain difficulty 
 that take forever because you miss Red Coins or Flowers. As usual the game gets off Easy but as 
 you progress it gets Harder and HARDER! At the end this game is very good and Nintendo have another 
 success with Yoshi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korubi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  In 1995 Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island opened a whole new can of worms on the SNES by changing 
 your role from that of Mario to his loyal sidekick Yoshi. Yoshi's Island was a prequel to prior 
 Mario games and featured the helpless Baby Mario on Yoshi's back; an intriguing reversal of roles. 
 As Yoshi swallowed and digested enemies, baby Mario was able to use the newly hatched eggs as projectiles 
 to fend off enemies and also as tools to activate switches. Looking back, the original Yoshi's 
 Island is regarded as one of the best platformers ever made, and with Yoshi's Island DS we finally 
 have a sequel that was worth the wait.
  
  Although Yoshi's Island DS doesn't have the same developer as the first game, the gameplay is practically 
 identical except for a few small but important changes. Now instead of only carrying baby Mario 
 on his back, Yoshi can carry baby Peach, Donkey Kong, Wario, and even Bowser. Most of the time, 
 who's riding on your back won't matter, but in special situations certain babies will prove vital. 
 For example, if you see a gust of wind, you know to switch to Peach at one of the various switching 
 stations throughout each level. She'll be able to use her umbrella to carry Yoshi to heights that 
 aren't possible with other characters. Donkey Kong's specialty is climbing and maneuvering vines, 
 while Wario manipulates environments with his giant U-shaped magnet and Bowser can melt ice with 
 his fire-breathing capabilities. Baby Mario can run the fastest of the bunch, which will come in 
 handy in a few key spots.
  
  While the special abilities seem like a great idea for this sequel, they unfortunately feel tacked 
 on in execution. But not to worry. The withstanding core mechanics are fun enough where you won't 
 be disappointed that they couldn't pull off the special abilities perfectly. Usually, the situations 
 where you need to switch babies seem oddly forced. For example, if you see some vines, switch to 
 Donkey Kong, then switch back, rinse, and repeat. It's almost like they took all of the abilities 
 Mario usually had and spread them out across five babies. But, for the most part, Yoshi's Isand 
 DS is just what fans wanted -- a simple extension of the original with some added features to spice 
 things up.
  
  One of the highlights of every Mario game is its boss fights, and Yoshi's Island DS definitely 
 delivers on this front. Because of the graphical power of the DS, bosses are able to take more 
 of a three-dimensional form in your 2D environments and now look more menacing than ever. Most 
 of the boss fights are based loosely on concepts introduced in the first game, but there are some 
 original fights that make great use of the touch screen as well. You'll aim Yoshi's eggs with the 
 stylus, and even use the poke function a few times to do damage. The final bout against Bowser 
 is particularly memorable if you played the first game because it's basically an enhanced (and 
 in a lot of ways a lot more fun) version of the fight in the original game. All in all, after completing 
 Yoshi's Island DS you'll be amazed at how many fun and creative ways you can throw an egg.
  
  The developer, Artoon, obviously made it a priority to make Yoshi's Island DS as accurate to 
 the original as possible ranging from mechanics down to the graphical style. The whole game still 
 has that crayon-drawn feel and cutesy music you'll immediately connect with the original game. 
 The DS's power also allows for more vibrant colors and some crisper animations to make the bosses' 
 magic powers seem that much more threatening. Overall, the game looks very similar to the original 
 which was definitely pushing the SNES's boundaries back in 1995 to begin with. Yoshi's Island DS 
 doesn't create an entirely new three-dimensional world for the green dinosaur to explore, but in 
 the end it doesn't really have to. Some things are just left better unchanged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reptileszz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 22, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  I bought this game based on the reviews I saw on here and they were dead on. This is a great game, 
 fun to play and not frustrating like some platformers.
  
  I can see myself actually finishing this game. Most of the time I find that I get tired of and 
 frustrated at platformers. So many of them kill you off over and over and I just put them down 
 and run away. When you die in Yoshi's Island you can generally get thru that part on the 2nd or 
 3rd try (so far) .
  
  I am only up to like level 5 or something but this is great fun! I recommend it to anyone, particularly 
 beginner platformers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaKierad
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Kierad Loves: The new babies, The crayon like visuals, Throwing Yoshi's arse yolks is still fun, Levels 
 a lot bigger and deeper than new Super Mario Bros, jumping from bottom to top screen, lots of replay 
 value.
  Kierad hates: The feeling that have already done this before, Crap mini-games, no multiplayer, 
 Baby Wario and bowser dont really do much, no interaction with the touch screen.
  
  Yoshis Island was probably the SNES finest hour and went down as possibly the greatest 2D platformer 
 ever.
  So when Nintendo announced that Yoshi's Island would get a sequel on The DS I got very excited 
 abot what they could do with it.
  After playing through the game I felt a bit dissapointed, why?
  
  Yoshis Island DS is basically 
 the same game that appeared on the SNES but with new characters, less worlds and the ability to 
 travel on both screens.
  Nintendo have stuck to the unique visual style from the first game which works a treat on th DS 
 Lites colourful and bright screens.
  The addition of new baby characters brings more to the table and requires that you use them all 
 as they each harness different abilities.
  Baby Mario can sprint and can activate special M blocks, Baby Princess Peach can hover in the air 
 for longer and can use her parasol to glide to higher places, Baby Donkey Kong can throw explosive 
 eggs and climb and swing on vines and ropes.
  Now that It has tooken the leap onto the DS the action now takes place on bothe screens which adds 
 a smarter way of thinking on how to get to new areas.
  
  So why was I so dissapointed with this game?
  If you have played the original then you might 
 think that this game is way to similar to the past entry, from the level design to the pratically 
 same storyline. The game also has less worlds to explore.
  This makes the game lose some of the flavour that made the original so special.
  Even if you 
 have not played the original then you will notice that they didn't exactly make full use of the 
 hardware as not once throughout the game do you interact with the screen and it could have been 
 done so well with ideas such as controlling Yoshis eggs with the stylus for easier targetting.
 
  Two of the babies feell like they have just been created to bring more characters into the game. 
 Baby warios Magnet ability and baby bowsers Fireballs are not really essential to the gameplay 
 and are rarely used.
  With past Mario related DS titles they have added some really clever and fun touch screen mini-games 
 but for Yoshis Island DS they have just settled for some cheap in game minigames which are not 
 fun or original in anyway.
  
  If this sounds like a bad game it is not. The game is still one of the best
  Platformers on the 
 DS but people who have already played the original might be dissapointed or the fact that with 
 a little more creativity, this game could have triumphed over Legendary SNES Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aDarkShine
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  I remember playing the first Yoshi's Island for the GBA. It took me a while to complete it. But 
 that's why this game is great. As the previous game this one packs the same amount of challenge. 
 It may make you get frustrated the first time you play a level but then you will just keep getting 
 better and better and at the end complete the level. This especially goes for the last world, which 
 from my point of view was rather difficult.
  
  The way the sound and the graphics are made is just wonderful. Those are the kind of things that 
 makes DS/ DS Lite comparable in a good way to the PSP. The mini games and the enemy museum boosts 
 it's replay value. And as for the tilt - it's different for everyone.
  
  Overall I think that nintendo made a great game. This game has all the great features of the last 
 game and some other to keep nintendo and non-nintendo fans happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeNMaStEr206
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to lie. Yoshi's Island 2 DS is one of the best titles out there. It truly is a killer 
 ap if you may call it that type of game (in my opinion) Yet once again, with low cash, I was once 
 again hesitant to buy this game, but now I know it was well worth every penny. I got it off eBay 
 used with a strategy guide for $34 with shipping, not bad, as both in stores cost $50ish w/ tax. 
 In Yoshi's Island DS, you guide Yoshi this time instead of Mario, Luigi, or Peach through levels. 
 The game is similar to Mario, but Yoshi had the ability to swallow enemies, spit them out at one 
 another, or make an egg out of them and throw the egg at other enemies. It's pretty much your old 
 school Yoshi's Island game for the Super Nintendo, but with updated graphics (it uses the same 
 graphics engine as Yoshi's Touch &amp; Go) Yoshi doesn't have a health bar in this game, but instead 
 has to worry about the baby's safety. In Yoshi's Island 2 DS you don't only control Baby Mario, 
 but Baby Wario, Baby Peach, Baby Donkey Kong, and Baby Bowser, I don't believe you can use Baby 
 Luigi. Each baby Yoshi is carrying has a uniqe ablility (i. e. Baby Donkey Kong can swing on vines, 
 Baby Peach can hover in the air, etc. etc.) The game is pretty much the same old school platformer 
 you loved on the SNES and continues to grow on you as you play this game. The two screens really 
 come into use and the cartoony-art style of the game is real appealing to many. Overall, all fans 
 will love this game, and even non-fans of the Yoshi/Mario franchise would love this game. Basically 
 if you love platformers, you love Mario or Yoshi, you have got to buy this game. I give it a 8.9 
 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destiny_Hero
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Well, I couldn't love this more. Well, I could, but you get the point.
  
  This game has a GREAT feel to it, and is one of the ONLY games to EVER use both screens right! 
 The graphic style never got boring, Yoshi had great moves (And colors!) and there were just so 
 many elements of play coming at me at once! And it's also a funny game, whether you're with your 
 friends or not! It's fun to run around and eat as many things as you can, and run around with your 
 conga-line. Egg style.
  
  I wish I could BUY this game, and if I did, I'd have to give it to my friends all the time. Why 
 must I be surrounded by Yoshi-freaks!? Buuut anyway, I wish I could get this game for all 4 of 
 us.
  
  Yoshi's Island 2: DS is a great game, with a great first impression, and I think lots of people- 
 Yoshi Freak or not (me!) would like it. It has everything Yoshi's ever done in any game a Yoshi 
 would!
  
  (How much eggs could a Yoshi egg if a Yoshi would egg eggs?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sixdown
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island DS is one of the most inventive games you will ever play. Every level on every one 
 of the five worlds is long and genuinely fun to play. It really is a masterpiece when it comes 
 to the overall experience.
  
  The problem with this game, however, lies in it's difficulty. There are times in this game, sometimes 
 even early on, that are simply too hard. I've spent an hour or two stuck on a few places that didn't 
 need to be that hard to present a challenge.
  
  However, every world, despite the difficulty, is always a fun experience, and all together is a 
 game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 18, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  ... and except for Yoshi's Story, the Mario games do platforming right. Following the Super Mario 
 Bros sequel, which game out last year, Yoshi's Island DS takes a classic platformer, and makes 
 a wonderful, faithful sequel to Yoshi's Island for SNES.
  
  If you are looking for something revolutionary and original, you probably won't find that here. 
 What you will find is a classic style platformer, that does everything right, that a side-scrolling 
 platformer should do.
  
  The graphics and sound, as you would expect, are both colorful and cute. They work here though. 
 If the sound doesn't stand out, the hand drawn style graphics do. Graphics don't really get better 
 on the DS.
  
  There is some good replay value. Collecting everything in every level may become an addiction to 
 you. But if not, you will probably sail through this game in a few days of casual play.
  
  Overall it's nothing new and revolutionary, but it's a shining example of classic sidescrolling 
 platforming done right! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayzee994
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 18, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Hmm Yoshis Island DS. Challenging, long enough and pretty fun! Although it can get extremely 
 frustrating most of it is great. A problem for me is the screens keep changing and makes me a little 
 bit dizzy but it probably wont do anything to you. The levels are much longer than the Mario games, 
 which leads to longer gameplay which is good. It may last up to around 50 hours or more if you 
 want to get 100% on every stage. I only have 100% on one stage. I havent even clocked it yet. 
 The new babies are great. Mario is great because he runs fast. Peach is great because she floats 
 for longer and the wind picks her up. Donkey Kong is good for climbing. Wario is err good for pulling 
 err stuff. Bowser is Awesome because he shoots fire blasts and that can kill most enemies in one 
 shot and can replace eggs for nearly anything but on the other hand, when Bowser is on Yoshi, Yoshi 
 cant stick his tongue out and turn enemies into eggs. So overall I still think Mario is the best 
 for the speed. The overall game is quite challenging and should last you for a while so go get 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 2:33 am PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island DS all in all is just simply a great game to play.
  it combines tough platforming with endearing gameplay and churns out one of the best DS games so 
 far. implementing the different babies along with their own set of abilities adds a whole new dimension 
 of gameplay and platforming obstacles in the game. it also gives you a choice on who you want to 
 complete the level with and with whom you want to replay the level to unlock the additional extras 
 and attain all the items such as flowers, red coins, and gold coins
  
  the only aspect of the game that holds it back from being greater than the first is the impossible 
 level of difficulty for those who like to acheive a 100%. Yoshi's Island DS is so absolutely impossible 
 to possibly finish the game 100% (aka collect all the items and finish the game with all stars 
 intact) .
  it seems as if it was made to frustrate rather than to challenge.
  
  apart from this issue, if you're not into total perfection in games, Yoshi's Island DS should keep 
 you happy and occupied for the whole duration of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whacy_Mac
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 14, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  The one on SNES was superb and I can still remember playing it to this day, so I was naturally 
 excited about this and while it is excellent, it is perhaps just a little too much like the original 
 game, same graphics (which is no bad thing) , same music, same gameplay and unfortunatly almost exactly 
 the same level design. The rest I dont mind but I was hoping for new levels so this might ward 
 away some who still own the original.
  
  The main difference between this and the original is that you get different babies all with different 
 abilities. Baby Mario who can run, Peach who has an umbrella, DK who can climb vines and shoulder 
 barge, Baby Wario who has a big magnet and Baby Bowser who can shoot fire balls but in return foreits 
 Yoshi's tounge and so cannot eat enemies. All the babies are needed at certain points and you can 
 swap between them at certain points.
  
  At the time of writing this I am about three quarters of the way through it and find it enjoyable 
 to play from time to time plus there is what we all love, replay vaule. If this is like the remake 
 on GBA then when you finish the game and get a certain amount of points in every level you unlock 
 more levels.
  
  Overall this is a great game but if you have the original I would recommend waiting a while before 
 getting it otherwise it is an excellent addition to a gamers platforming collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eherosparkman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  this game is very good!
  i beat the last dungeon in less than an hour ( or about an hour)
  wow, this game is almost as good as the prequal, yoshi's island . ( on snes) but three bosses in 
 one level (level 8 world 5, the last level)
  hard, if you dont know what to do, baby bowser, big bowser, and gigantic bowser!!!!
  the level 
 before the last was a thumb buster, it was very hard. i have the original ilike the two games just 
 as much!
  if you get this game and make it to the end, play the last level with mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4yda
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 12, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  The basics? Starting the game, you see a short cotscene mainly explaining the scenario this time 
 round. Then the adventure begins! You play as a Yoshi, a helpful sort of dinosaur. You carry a 
 baby around on your back and each different baby his it's own special powers. Yoshi can eat his 
 enemies, and turn them into eggs. Which he throws at, guess what? More enemies! It's quite simple 
 to ghet the hang of, so be prepared!
  
  Gameplay? This is honestly the most original platformer game ever. The level design is superd, 
 enemies are abunant, and the bosses take up both screens!. Weather you're hurling eggs at giant 
 shy-guys, bouncing along in a kangaroo, or even pulling metal things towards you with a giant magnet, 
 the gameplay is great! 9.5/10
  
  Graphics? Ok, so this isn't exactly where a 2D game's going to stand out, but for a side scrolling 
 platformer, it's pretty sweet! The animations are fluent, the levels vibrant, and the bosses massive. 
 Quite honestly, the gameplay suits a 2D platformer, and couldn't be achived in 3D. 8/10
  
  Sound? Although there are nly a few tunes, the songs are mentally addictive! More songs would, 
 of course be better as it would make the game yet more indulgent. The sound effects arent too shabby, 
 but some are repetetive... And what's even worse is the babies crying! I's sooooo annoying! (particularly 
 Wario and Bowser) . 5/10
  
  Overall? Yoshi's island DS is a fun game for all ages, and although the original was longer and 
 better, this DS game hold up the Yoshi's Island name (unlike kmost of the nother sequels) This 
 game gets 23.5/30 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timinator18
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Yoshis island DS is the sequel to the best platforming game on the SNES. If you have played it 
 on the SNES or GBA, you know exactly what to expect. Yoshi eats enemies, and throws eggs. Thats 
 about it. But its a lot of fun. If i have to complain about anything, its that i think the swapping 
 babies idea was implemented poorly. The games graphics are what you would expect from a yoshis 
 island sequel. The only thing is that the backgrounds lost the crayon colored effects. I just thought 
 it would have added a lot more nostalgic value. The soundtrack isnt as strong as the first game, 
 but its still pretty solid. Its a great platforming game that you shouldn't miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 10, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Yoshi's Island DS is a game filled with color and life. It may not have any CGI graphics 
 you see in Final Fantasy games but the crayon type graphics are nice to look at and the're easy 
 on the eyes. Being able to use other babies other than Mario is a great way to keep the gameplay 
 fresh and exciting. Each baby has a special ability that can help you through the game. There are 
 many levels to go to which means you will spend many hours glueing your eyes on the screen and 
 I mean that literally.
  
  The BAD: When I first started the game I thought it would be a piece of cake to beat it. But I 
 was DEAD WRONG! Towards the end of the game, the difficulty goes from babies could do it to Hardcore 
 gamers could do it The game is HARD, sometimes it makes you think it's impossible, but don't worry 
 it's possible, I beat it, that's why I'm writing the review. Normally, when you enter a boss battle 
 you get more tense, but in this case you will be more tense when starting a level then when fighting 
 a boss. The bosses in this game are extremely easy, which is kind of strange since the levels are 
 crazily hard.
  
  Bottom Line: Yoshi's Island is a pretty good game, with nice graphics and somewhat exciting gameplay, 
 but the difficulty makes you want to rip your hair off and get the game over with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RODRIGUEZJR
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  It has been nearly 12 years ago since we first saw Yoshi and Baby Mario embark on an adventure 
 together to save Baby Luigi from the evil hands of Baby Bowser and Kamek. Super Mario World 2: 
 Yoshis Island is perhaps, one of the greatest platformers in the old SNES days. Years after that, 
 gamers seen Yoshi in other spin-off titles to the original game, such as Yoshis Story, Yoshis 
 Topsy Turvy, and Yoshis Touch &amp; Go. But, the spin-off titles didnt really do so well unlike 
 the original. At E3 06, Nintendo surprised a lot of fans and gamers with many brand new titles 
 like Star Fox Command and a new sequel to the original game, Yoshis Island DS. But, is the new 
 sequel to Yoshis Island great or not? Read the review to find out.
  
  The game takes place after the original. Kamek is back and causing trouble again. He plans to kidnap 
 all of the villages babies to seek out one of the seven star babies, which he and another villain 
 can use to rule the universe. Included with the kidnapped babies are the Baby Mario Bros., Baby 
 Peach, and Baby Donkey Kong. Luckily, the stork helped rescued a few of the baby heroes, but they 
 are scattered around Yoshis Island. Once again a group of different colored had found Baby Mario 
 and decided to embark on another adventure.
  
  The games plot isnt really too different than the original. Once again Baby Luigi is kidnapped, 
 this time with other human babies as well. The plot of the game is kind of weak though since its 
 just basically the same identical story to the first.
  
  If you had played the original game before, you are going to be familiar to the egg throwing and 
 the fluttering jump, and just about almost every element from the original returns in this one. 
 Although, there are some new gimmicks added to this sequel such as, using different babies to open 
 up new abilities Yoshi never used in the original. Using babies such as Peach can allow Yoshi to 
 use his flutter while Peach opens up her umbrella to stay in the air for a little while or use 
 them to ride the wind guests. If you need to break something rough, Baby DK is there for you. With 
 his strength, he can make the egg throws explode into breakable substances and collecting a group 
 of coins together. He can also help you climb vines to travel up through stages quicker than just 
 jumping onto platform to platform. At last, we also have Baby Wario, who can use a magnet to pull 
 magnetic blocks or platforms to move on and also collect a few coin near him as well. The only 
 thing that is weird when attracting coins is sometimes, you are near the coin but it wont attract 
 it at all.
  
  Gamers will be using each babies abilities to get through the stages. The stages in this game 
 is mostly new than the original. The beginning may be a bit familiar in some way but once you progress 
 through the game, everything else looks brand new. If you are just going to rush through the levels, 
 the games difficulty is disappointment for you. Rushing through the game is really easy and may 
 take a couple of hours to beat the games five worlds. Although, you can stay in the stages for 
 a little while to collect all the red coins, have a full star counts, and collect five flowers 
 to try to get a 100 for your stage score. Collecting everything in the stages will unlock new extra 
 stages, just like in the original, but, it just felt rather boring doing the same thing over and 
 over again in all the levels. Hardcore fans, will probably play through the game to complete it 
 100%, but for people who rather rush through shall be disappointed.
  
  Another disappointment with the game are the boss battles. Just like in the old days, you only 
 need to hit the boss three times to defeat them. Every boss battle is just disappointing. I felt 
 the original games bosses had provided challenges. The bosses in this game didnt certainly provide 
 a challenge.
  
  The games graphical look didnt really change much from the SNES version, but Yoshi is given a 
 new better looking sprite than the original. Most of the enemies in this game are much as the same 
 as before, although, a little brighter look. The water animations had improved from the first and 
 the black thin lines on the stages are thinner than the first. Other than that, the game hasnt 
 really changed its colorful looks.
  
  The games music is also a disappointment as well. The first game had that great music that just 
 simply fits the area so well and made the levels interesting. In YIDS, the music isnt really 
 great to listen to. Throughout the game, the levels will keep on playing the same theme music for 
 the game, but changes when you are cave levels or the outside levels. This game didnt really shine 
 well at all in this area.
  
  If most of you remember from the original was the annoying cries of Baby Mario. It returns to this 
 game as well, but there is even more annoying cries, especially Warios cry. If you are into the 
 current Mario games, the voices arent that much different. Yoshi still has his same voice we always 
 know and love. There is also the most of the same sound effects from other Mario games as well.
 
  
  After playing through this game, you most likely wont like to play through it again since the 
 main game wasnt really that much attractive than the first game. Fans may want to play through 
 the game 100% to unlock extra stages or to fill up the games museum. There is also a Time Trail 
 mode you can unlock to beat the stages at a first time rate.
  
  I hate to say this Yoshi, but you didnt really do well in this game. You got to try harder in 
 the next game. I probably would recommend the game to the fans, but to others, this title didnt 
 really meet up its expectations. I really hope that the next time Artoon makes the next Yoshi game 
 something new, fresh, and better than the other spin-offs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palomaydarla
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  When i started to play this game, i was expecting somehow, better quality in everything than the 
 older version for GBA. And it surely is.
  Great images, sounds, new powers, new characters, new enemies, etc. I personally have always loved 
 Yoshi's games for all the systems, but i must say that in this case i started to doubt it.
  I cleared the first world and i got a couple of 100 scores and many medals, so i was very happy 
 (because i love to clear all the games perfect) , but as i was moving though the game i was realizing 
 how difficult to get perfect it was. Even some stages are very hard to just clear...
  So, after a lot of cursing and swearing, i could barely clear the stages and the game left me without 
 the will to play it again... it just too hard!!
  And no way i'll destroy the buttons of my beautiful white polar DS, to make a perfect score.
 
  Other thing i didn't like it that much... i was expecting that with this Yoshi game we could explore 
 more the features of the DS, but instead we got just a very hard game that could be made easily 
 for the GBA.
  
  Thanks Nintendo for making a terrible game for DS, and i'm still waiting for the great game of 
 Yoshi DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashbash14
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  This game is practically the same as the previous yoshi game only this time you are not tied down 
 to only using the baby Mario, this time you get the chance to carry baby Mario, baby princess peach, 
 baby donkey Kong, baby wario and even the evil baby bowser and use the special powers that they 
 possess. After playing the first yoshis island I didnt think it was the best game ever so when 
 the yoshis island ds game was released I didnt even plan on getting but my friends had given 
 it a very good review so I decided to give it a chance and I was amazed, this game was very much 
 like the old one but had some new features and those new features are the thing that won me over. 
 This game offers fun for the whole family for weeks and weeks offering story mode, time trial mode 
 and minigame mode. I found most of the bits in this game quite simple but I still had problems 
 on certain parts after so dont be thrown off by this it is still a difficult game at times and 
 I highly recommend this game for every one. The one main thing that disappointed me was the fact 
 that you rarely use the touch screen and you never use the microphone so I dont see why it couldnt 
 have some ds features. I want to know what you think so please email me your comment on the game 
 at gamefreak14@hotmail. co. uk.
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Super-Mario-Fan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island DS is the first true sequel to the SNES game, Yoshi's Island. The gameplay stays 
 true to the original while adding in a few new elements. The first is the baby swap mechanic, in 
 which each baby gives Yoshi some unique abilities. The other is the minigames, which have Yoshi 
 flutter jumping, bouncing, and eating enemies for high scores. The graphics and sounds are good, 
 but they aren't memorable like in the first game. The replay value is great. There may not be as 
 many levels as in the first game, but they are still very challenging, especially once you get 
 to the end of the game and unlock the extremely difficult secret levels. Since this game is more 
 challenging than other DS platformers, I'd recommend those who want a good challenge to get this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  After learning that Artoon was developing the next installment of what has been hailed as one of 
 the greatest platformers ever, I was personally quite worried. And as it turns out, I was right, 
 but I was right for the wrong reasons.
  
  As it turns out, Yoshi's Island DS stays true to the gameplay, level design, and art style that 
 made the original Yoshi's Island on SNES such a big success. You won't find any linear, easy levels 
 like you did in New Super Mario Bros. in this game. These levels are BIG. Partially because ... 
 well, all the levels in Yoshi's Island had a rather large feel to them, but also big because the 
 dual screens of the system allows for even more massive landscapes.
  
  And the difficulty traversing these landscapes has gotten even harder by the introduction of babies 
 into the game. Not only is Yoshi ridden by Baby Mario, who allows Yoshi to make use of certain 
 M blocks that appear only when Mario is riding him, but also Baby Peach (who allows Yoshi to ride 
 on air winds with her parasol out) , Baby DK (who can climb vines and dash through people with this 
 shoulder) , Baby Wario (who collect coins easier by using his magnet) , and yes, even Baby Bowser 
 (who spits fireballs) . On top of all these new abilities each baby grants, each baby somehow allows 
 Yoshi to throw an egg differently, and if that wasn't enough ... levels are designed so that you 
 can only reach certain places by using certain babies (sometimes babies who haven't even joined 
 your party yet) . So if you intend to unlock everything in the game ... then I warn you, for even 
 the most avid Yoshi's Island master will be tearing his hair out trying to complete this game.
 
  
  So what's bad about this game? The sound. When tromping through environments so true to their source 
 material that you're overwhelmed with this great feeling of nostalgia ... you're suddenly RIPPED 
 out of that hypnotic dream by music and sound effects that are .... not even remotely .... true 
 to the original games. Most noticable is the music, which takes the baby theme a little bit too 
 far by making each song so soft and so light and delicate that you could almost fall asleep listening 
 to it. Yes, that's right, the jammingly happy tunes from the orginal game have been replaced by 
 slow beats of what seems to be random notes that hardly make anything remotely sounding like a 
 musical theme at all. And if that's not enough, most of the most memorable sound effects (including 
 the sound and music that you get when you jump through the goal ring) have been entirely changed.
 
  
  I know what you're thinking. What's so wrong with that? Other games have done that before! Look 
 at the New Super Mario Bros. theme! And yes, you're right. New Super Mario Bros. does have new 
 music, new sounds, and things that generally aren't old school Mario. But at the same time I want 
 you to picture this -- someone remakes the original Super Mario Bros. game .... say for the Virtual 
 Console ... but instead of the classic score and sound effects, everything has been replaced with 
 ... mm ... say ... country music. Garth Brooks. Singing a duet with Three Six Mafia.
  
  Now, for the love of Miyamoto and all things Nintendo, tell me ... is that right? Would that FEEL 
 right to you? Would you like this?
  
  No. And with that, you understand how perturbed I am that the artistic style stayed SO true to 
 the original game, and yet the sound ... not only the effects, but even the beat and feeling of 
 the music itself, was thrown out the window.
  
  That being said, the rest of the game is really flawless, giving it a great pick up and play feeling 
 while at the same time offering long time masters of the original game a run for their money by 
 introducing some more challenging level and gameplay designs.
  
  All and all, its a worthy sequel and must have platformer for your Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-dawggg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  Yoshi's island Ds. Wow. I remember playing number one on SNES, Even when the N64 was out. I didnt 
 wanna buya N64, My friends thought i was stupid, Seeing how i only had one game Which was yoshi's 
 island. Even when the gamecuba came out. I was still playing my Snes, I gita cube and a GBA for christmas. With 
 ,my GBA and my GCN, I had a couple games. Sure they where fun only most of the time my SNES would 
 be plugged in. But Then the GBA version came out with extra levels. Now i played that on the road 
 and Got open to some new games. Then i got the DS and the wii, When i looked at YI 2 i went to Eb 
 right away and preordered. Yoshi island 2 has Fun levels, They are lionger and more fun the the NSMB. More 
 thought was put into them. Funner bosses. Yoshis island 1 i could still say was better, But this was 
 still worth the 40$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark2th
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island DS advances on the gameplay mechanics of the original with additional features that 
 I won't name for the sake of keeping this review spoiler free. It also maintains the tradition 
 of hidden question mark bubbles, collectable flowers, red coins, and new to the series (if I'm 
 not mistaken?) , hidden baby coins. The levels are long and often challenging. It is not a matter 
 of rushing through a linear level of easily avoidable obstructions. Often you will have to make 
 decisions about directions that may help or hinder your quest to finish a level with all of the 
 secrets uncovered. Early levels feature obstacles that cannot be surmounted until returned to at 
 a later date increasing replayability. I won't mention the graphics or the sound at length because 
 to be honest they don't really stick out as anything exceptional. But they get the job done. I 
 suppose if I were to be really critical I could say that after the pizazz of the graphics in the 
 NSMB, Yoshi's could have used a facelift. But it's not something that will bother you while playing 
 the game. You'll pick it up, enjoy it, and forget that the graphics are anything other than a way 
 to visually represent a series of challenges on your handheld system. It's a similar thing with 
 the sound. I won't mention the graphics or sound at length .. it's my longest paragraph..
  
  If you prefer your platformers simple and speedy then this probably isn't the game to go. If 
 you like slow, involving, explorative platties, you'll probably enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gweeql
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Those of you who are familiar with the first game will be right at home with this. It plays nearly 
 the same to the first one. The graphics are about the same aswell. Which is only a minor disappointment. 
 The game itself isnt as bad, but the levels are just not very intuitive in this game. The levels 
 arent as linear as the first game. Also there is more babies to instead of just Mario. Baby Peach, DK, Wario, And 
 Bowser join the team. The two screens can get annoying while trying to aim and such. This game 
 makes basically no use of the touch screen. The game was less fun this time around it seemed. Some 
 parts are frusterating, but most of this game is really easy, and you can probably blow through 
 it in a couple of hours. There is only 5 worlds. Its definately a game that should be check out, 
 especially if youre a Mario fan or a fan of the first game, but it may turn some away. It could 
 have been a whole lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deviru
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Alrite... overall, this game is okay... It starts easy and gets tougher in a linear pace.. or sorta 
 linear pace ^^ also this is the only game I've played that makes use both screens, tho it's kinda 
 annoying when I can't see the part between both screens.
  
  In detail, here is my review:
  
  Gameplay is fun and unique. I haven't played this game before, 
 but compared to Mario, it has its distinguished control. Also it does not take a long time to learn 
 to play, or at least it is for most gamers, coz everythin is pretty obvious and there are lots 
 of help blocks around the levels. I give 9 for the original gameplay...
  
  Graphics is good. I like the cartoon style. Looks beautiful. Other than that, theres nothing much 
 to say. I give 8 for the graphs.
  
  Sound is awesome. I like the background songs. Not sure why but I never get bored with it, tho 
 I have to repeat the same level many times just to get the perfect score. I give 9 for the sound.
 
  
  Value... I can say, it worths your money. But if u can get the used one, just get that. For the 
 value, I give 7.
  
  I am an RPGer and so this game is not really going to be my collection. But it's a good alternative 
 when I was fed up with my Final Fantasy III =p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wad11656
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most unique games I've ever played! It's very fun and interesting playing as 
 Yoshi, and the babies' different various abilities really add to the fun of the game.
  Before getting this, I really didn't know what to expect. I sort of just turned on my DS Lite and 
 started playing. At first, it was quite annoying. I was so used to playing games like New Super 
 Mario Bros. and Sonic Rush, which have very simple button schemes. I kept trying to use the A button 
 to jump instead of B, so I often died, but slowly and eventually, I got use to the button controls 
 on Yoshi's Island DS.
  The look of the game is interesting and different. The crayon-style graphics actually are quite 
 fun and it's enjoyable playing in that type of environment, but the crayon-style gaming doesn't 
 give it an impressive look, but rather a childish and care-free look, which isn't all that bad. 
 Also, there are nice animations and many different enemies, which all harm your Yoshi in different 
 ways.
  Though the rest of the aspects of the game are great, the sound is alright. The noises and background 
 music is clear, but not very catchy at all. There is usually no interesting background music in 
 the levels, which really decreases the fun of the game, I think.
  Through some levels, it is very difficult to get through certain spots, and you may take up to 
 a whole hour to get past them, but the game allows you to aquire quite a few lives throughout, 
 so it's not so much of a big deal. Every baby has their own abilities, and it is so fun to use 
 them in different areas of the game. You also have to use certain babies to get through certain 
 spots, and you can't just fly through levels. It takes time and a little bit of skill to get through 
 them. This is not so much of a kiddy game as one might think. It is quite difficult to play sometimes, 
 and it has excellent variety and gameplay.
  
  I hope you enjoyed this review, and I hope it helped you out! (This is my 1st review!) Thanks! wad11656 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalonoa6
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  The new game of the series includes all new babies to help yoshi and the baby get through differant 
 levels. For example, baby peach has an umbrella and in some levels, a gust of wind can pick Yoshi 
 and baby Peach of the ground to a new area. And baby DK can swing on vines and ropes. There are 
 lots and lots of puzzles within the levels to keep you thinking. The controlls are very similar 
 to the earlier versions of the game because I don't think you ever use the stylus. I played the 
 earlier versions and it took no time at all to get the hang of the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  This game is a sequal to an old game. That game is Yoshi's Island and that's a 1995 game. Judging 
 from it's title, Yoshi's Island was originally supposed to be a sequal to Super Mario World. Yoshi's 
 Island DS seems to suggest differently.
  
  Their's 6 worlds this time instead of 7. The controls in this game ain't quite as good as in New 
 Super Mario Brothers, but still good. You start with Baby Mario on Yoshi's back, but throught the 
 game, you'll be using Baby Peach, Baby Donkey Kong, Baby Wario and even Baby Bowser. The graphics 
 ain't so bad, but they are a bit simalar to the original Yoshi's Island.
  
  If you like Yoshi's Island, you'll most likely like this game too. I don't know if I like this 
 better than the original or not since it's been a long time since a played the original. Overall, 
 this is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jburde
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  The first Yoshi's Island game was released on the Nintendo SNES in 1991. It is now on the DS and 
 is just as great. If you haven't played this game, Baby Peach and Baby Luigi have been captured 
 by an evil Magikoopa, and Yoshi and Baby Mario have to save them.
  In this adventure, you travel through a variety of huge levels. All of them are unique in their 
 own way. They are designed in a childish crayon way, which makes this much more interesting. The 
 childish music really goes well with the theme of this game. The sound of an egg popping when it 
 hits an enemy or popping in midair also sounds cool.
  If you don't own this game, but own a DS, I highly recommend that you go out and buy this, it is 
 well worth your $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyInvader101
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island is one of my favorite games on the SNES. With its colorful environments, crayon 
 graphics, great gameplay, and wonderful joyous music. When a sequel was announced, I grew excited 
 wondering how much better this game would be than Yoshi's Island 1. After completing the first 
 world, I knew this game wasnt the same and had worsened. Yoshi's Isnt a bad game, in fact it 
 is a pretty good game, but it cannot compare to the first and thinking the game would be better 
 than the first is stupid as well.
  
  The games plot is nearly identical to the first games. The Yoshis of Yoshi Island must save some 
 babies from Bowser. This time, Yoshi and Mario arent alone. They Now have 4 other babies to help 
 them on their adventure.
  Yoshi's Island DS plays like the previous game, you play as Yoshi, an egg making Dinosaur. Saddled 
 on Yoshi's back is one of the 5 babies, who each have a special ability. Mario can hit Mario blocks 
 and make Yoshi run, Peach can make Yoshi flutter jump longer and can make Yoshi be carried into 
 gusts of winds, Baby DK can climb on branches and ram stuff, Baby Wario carries a magnet and attracts 
 all magnetic things to him, and Baby Bowser can breathe fire. Each baby also changes Yoshis eggs, 
 Mario can make them ricochet as can Wario, Baby DK can make them explode and Baby Bowser makes 
 Yoshi loose the ability to eat eggs, but he can still collect them and make them ricochet, and 
 Baby Peach's eggs, just break when they hit something. The base gameplay is simple. Jump and run 
 from the start of the level to the end of the level while eating enemies and making them into eggs, 
 ground pounding enemies, and shooting eggs. You do not have a health meter in Yoshi's Island. Instead, 
 if you are hit, the baby on you back flies off and is put into a floating bubble and cries until 
 you catch him, but you only have a certain amount of time depending on how many star points are 
 gathered, you get these from? Clouds (breakable with eggs) and checkpoints. There are 5 worlds 
 in the game with 8 main levels inside of them, when you are halfway done with a world and when 
 you are on the last level of a world, you fight a boss. But these bosses are very unoriginal and 
 are rehashed from the previous game, and do not take much skill to defeat. The graphics in the 
 game are cleaner than the previous game's, but that is not a good thing. The game doesnt look 
 as good, the clean graphics also makes the game loose personality, if you know what I mean. The 
 environments look alright except in levels with rain, the rain falls extremely slow, very unrealistic, 
 the backgrounds also move slow, regardless of how nice they look, it is annoying to have all these 
 slow things and a faster paced game. The Music as another thing that has changed. Yoshi's Island 
 1 had a great and wonderful soundtrack full of vibrant sounds and music that just stuck in my head 
 all day. But this game's soundtrack seems like it was compiled in a few days. Hearing the near 
 perfection of Yoshi's Island 1's sound track, which fit every level perfectly, the current soundtrack 
 seems very out of place. Fans of the previous game will be delighted and annoyed at the fact that 
 there is not mute button for the babies cry, as annoying as it is, it would just seem so out of 
 place without it. The other sound effects seem to have been ported over from the previous game, 
 thank god for that. The few that have not been ported over sound just as good.
  
  The game has five worlds with eight levels in each world. The previous game had, I think, 7 or 
 8 worlds. It is a bit disappointing that the game isnt as long as the previous one. Anyways, 5 
 worlds, 8 levels in each, each level taking around 10 minutes without taking time to smell the 
 roses (corny I know) . So thats around 400 minutes or 6 hours. After you beat the game, you unlock 
 another level in each world, and I believe if you collect all of the baby coins in each level, 
 a level opens up in each world again, so thats actually around 8 hours. There are also several 
 mini games you can play, but you must find them in each level to unlock them for personal play. 
 Sadly these games are not that fun, some involve you eating a lot of shy guys in a minute, others 
 making you flutter jump really far. The game is also missing multiplayer, I believe at one time 
 they even had multiplayer announced for it, and with the disappointing story mode, the multiplayer 
 would have made up for it. But, regardless of much worse it is than the original, fans of the series 
 will want to play it. Even if you havent played the previous one, you should go out and buy it, 
 seeing that you will really only be disappointed if you played the first one.
  
  Overall, Yoshi's Island DS just feels like one big disappointment, but this is coming from a fan 
 of the first. If you are new to the series, pick this game up, it is a great platformer regardless 
 of much worse it is in comparison to the first. And while youre at it, buy Super Mario Advance 
 3 to play the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_link93
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  In 1991, Super Mario World debuted on the Super Nintendo, and brought the Mario series a near flawless 
 adventure. Four years later, Super Mario World 2 was released and, instead of trying to top the 
 previous milestone, they set out to create a different kind of adventure. This bold risk resulted 
 in what became one of the greatest platformer ever released.
  
  And now, after eleven long years, it's time for a second outing with Baby Mario and Yoshi in Yoshi's 
 Island DS.
  
  GAMEPLAY - 9
  
  This is a true sequel to YI, so the gameplay is nearly a carbon copy of the original. No more collecting 
 fruit or tilting the screen for movement, this game brings Yoshi back to his 16bit roots, which 
 means making eggs, and throwing eggs. Though, it wouldn't be a sequel without a few additions to 
 the formula. The most obvious addition is the second screen. Your game view has been expanded vertically, 
 so you now can see what is above/below you. This allows for a lot higher egg shooting, as well 
 as the ability to see enemies above you. At anytime you wish, you can switch Yoshi from the top/bottom 
 screen by pressing X and pressing the control pad in the desired direction. This gives you a nice 
 amount of control over your visibility. The only flaw involving this Dual Screen System is that 
 there is a blind spot between the two screens, and sometimes objects will get stuck in it without 
 you knowing. That being said, this still is hardly a problem during motion, and never gets as frustrating 
 as some reviewers have claimed.
  
  The second addition is the ability to switch the star child riding on Yoshi's back. At certain 
 stations in the level, you can call the famous Stork and switch between babies. Your party will 
 include mainly of Mario, Peach, and DK, but Wario and Bowser will join the fun at different points 
 in the game. Each child has a range of abilities, which expands the puzzle solving vastly. Yoshi's 
 Island DS is much more focused on puzzles this time around, so expect to be switching babies frequently 
 later on in the game. The only flaw with the swapping-baby mechanic is that it sometimes isn't 
 indicated which baby you'll need next when you reach the Stork Stop, and some of the abilities 
 don't function as consistently as necessary. For example, Baby DK may not catch a vital vine when 
 commanded, and you'll end up falling to your death.
  
  Aside from those major additions, much of the gameplay is a recycling of past mechanics. Morphing 
 returns in this game and vehicles are introduced also. Simply put, YI DS retains the amazing amount 
 of variety that made the original so addictive.
  
  GRAPHICS - 9
  
  The graphics are quite the step up from the original game. Although there are no polygons or anything 
 too high-tech, each hand-drawn sprite is polished and clean. There are some neat transparency effects 
 also, and the bright, colourful scenery found in each level makes Yoshi's Island DS one of the 
 best looking DS games around. Unfortunately, there are also a few graphical flaws found in the 
 game as some textures are reused too frequently, and some sprites look really pixellated.
  
  SOUND - 8
  
  I'm gonna be flat out about this: the original game had much better sound 
 effects than the sequel. That being said, the music isn't bad, it just sets out to achieve a calmer, 
 more relaxing atmosphere than the original did. Most of the levels' background music is catchy 
 enough to be memorable, but but some of the BGM is just so subtle that you'll hardly notice that 
 they were even there to begin with.
  
  The character sprite sound effects have mostly changed from the original. Some are annoying, while 
 others feel natural. The best change has to be that Yoshi retains his Yoshi's Story yelps and such, 
 which adds much needed character to the friendly dinosaur.
  
  VALUE - 8
  
  First and foremost, Yoshi's Island DS is shorter than the first, although it tries to make up for 
 it with minigames and extra levels. Unfortunately, the minigames suck (How many eggs can you make 
 in 30 seconds?) , and don't use the touch screen at all.
  
  Fortunately, there are 5 flowers, 20 red coins, and a special character coin hidden in every level. 
 Collecting the character coins in every world unlocks harder versions of the minigames, but once 
 again, the minigames suck, and you'll lose motivation to collect the coins rather quickly.
  
  After completing the game, you'll unlock Time Trial mode, which gives you five extra levels 
 and a speedrun-type mode. That adds a bit, but after you've played through the worlds a few times, 
 your attention will likely drift away from the game.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT - 8
  
  I played the original Yoshi's Island eleven years ago, and to this day I still regard it as the 
 best platformer of all time. Yoshi's Island DS is a true sequel to the game, and it really feels 
 like just additional levels to the old game. That, perhaps, is its greatest flaw. The game itself 
 isn't able to stand alone, but needs to lean on the original for support.
  
  For example, the worlds are hardly themed, and the levels don't really carry the theme that they 
 have. Near the end of what seems to be a cloud-themed world, you'll encounter the Yoshi-on-skiis 
 level, which is so nostalgic that it literally calls you back to the original game.
  
  Even the morphing sections of the game are too similar to the predecessor, and while in flight 
 with the Yoshicopter you'll almost know that there are hidden red coins in a tunnel above the end-post, 
 which gives you a sense of deja-vu. Thankfully, the bosses are new and creative, and most span 
 both screens.
  
  Thankfully, the later levels in the game are very challenging, which should make use of the hundred 
 and some lives that you'll earn during your first playthrough.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Yoshi's Island DS undeniably caters to the fans of the original. It refines the classic gameplay 
 mechanics and introduces many new ones, as it takes us back eleven years to the wilds of Yoshi's 
 Island for another fun and colourful adventure. This sequel is an ambitious attempt at recreating 
 the brilliance of the original game, and will sit only slightly below the pedestal on which the 
 SNES game resides.
  
  Welcome back to Yoshi's Island.
  
  FINAL SCORE - 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toiletmunger
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 26, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Yoshi's Island DS is the only game I have for DS right now and so far it's been.... good.... You 
 see, the gameplay is fine but there really is no way to perfect the original Yoshi's Island.... 
 NO MATTER HOW MANY BABIES YOSHI HAS !
  
  The graphics aren't as good as they could be but for a 2-dimensional game on a portable system, 
 there about the best you'll ever find ! But who cares about graphics, anyways? It's the gameplay 
 that's important. That's something that most XBOX 360, PSP, and PS3 buyers just don't understand 
 ! The sound/music is good but I'm a little disappointed that they didn't bring back any of the 
 tunes from Yoshi's Island 1 ! Oh and the new baby cries are annoying, too ! So, even though Yoshi's 
 Island DS can't compete with its prdecessor, It's still a great DS game.... I just wish they would've 
 used the touch screen more often.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdog144
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game today for Christmas. Its mroe then what i had expected to. I expected a fairly 
 slow paced game with a somewhat boring story line. But i was wrong. Its not to slow, and the story 
 seems to be a fairly good one at that. It has cute graphics of baby mario and all the other babies. 
 Yoshi and all the other yoshis are heros in this game trying to save baby luigi. The graphics like 
 i said are cute, but they also show what the DS can do for bright vivid colors and some accually 
 good textures in a side scrolling game. My advice if you like yoshi and mario and all that, get 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Good: Classic Platforming at its best. It looks and plays just like the original, so fans of the 
 first game will like it too. Long levels and the secret levels will you keep you busy for awile 
 and it increases the replay value. Now with 5 new babies it makes each level more interesting.
 
  
  Bad: The only thing that I didn't like (and this is a major thing) is that it gets extremely difficult 
 very quickly. The first 3 worlds are fairly simple. Then when you get to the 4th and the 5th world 
 it gets very frustrating. There were times when I felt like either throwing my DS out the window 
 or punching a baby in the face. There are some levels where you have to stay on a small platform 
 made of slippery ice while there are ghosts flying at you and you have to try to save your baby 
 that is floating away all at the same time.
  
  Overall, I would say this is a really good game. Maybe its just me, but this game was fairly hard 
 to beat in the end. Its a lot harder than the original. (I beat the original in about a week and 
 it took me about a month to beat this game.) But if you are at all a fan of the original Yoshi's 
 Island or platforming in general, then get this game. But be warned, it may be very frustrating... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jehonaker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Eleven years ago, the original Yoshi's Island came out, and it was an extremely good game. It was 
 a long, deep platformer that was challenging while still remaining intuitive. Its true successor, 
 Yoshi's Island DS, is an excellent game in its own right, leaving the basic formula untouched, 
 but adding a unique twist in the different babies: you can switch out babies, opening up a lot 
 of new opportunities.
  The problem? The levels quickly get extremely difficult and long. It can take at least ten minutes 
 to clear the later levels if you want to get everything (and you do; the rewards are worth it) .
 
  This game is definitely worth your time. In an age where games are short and easy, this one stands 
 out as a devious game that anybody would like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heath8888
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2006 10:32 pm PT
Review:  i got this game yesterday and it is a must own. the Graphics are amazing for the ds even know it 
 is 2d. the best thing about it it the replay value i keep on playing the level over and over again 
 to get the best score. switching players is very fun there is mario bowser wario peach and D. K 
 AND THE ALL HAVE SPECIAL POWERS! MARIO CAN RUN FAST WARIO CAN ATRACT Meatal dk cand climb on vines 
 peach can jump high and bowser can shoot fire balls. i have not played the snes version but this 
 one rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darrowby88
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game. Now here's why:
  
  This game feels new and amazing while at the same time feels retro.
  I grew up in the SNES generation 
 and played and loved all of the Mario games, however, Yoshi's Island was my favorite.
  
  The DS sequel keeps the same magic that made that game great while at the same time adding new 
 characters and moves and enemies. It does all this without feeling cluttered.
  
  If you dont already own this game, go get it... simple.
  
  The only drawback is the lack of 
 multi-player which was initially missed, but after i got into the meat of the game and trying to 
 find everything, i didnt need it.
  
  Oh yeah,... GO GET IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozzychrono
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  If your a fan like I am of the original Yoshi's Island then you will love Yoshi's Island DS. Everything 
 is there that was in there original and them some. The biggest change of all was the addition of 
 different babies that ride on Yoshi's back. Each baby has different abilities making the gameplay 
 more interesting. The graphics and animation doesnt compare to New Super Mario Bro., but look really 
 good with its cartoon/crayon art style. The game is colorful and bright which is expected so it 
 looks very nice.
  The music in the game fits the levels your playing, its nothing to catchy but it fits the mood. 
 The sound effects all sounds crisp and on spot.
  The gameplay is perfection. The level designs are well thought out and the levels are very lengthy. 
 The boss battles are very creative and well done also.
  I recommend this game for anyone who loves the oldschool 2D platformers and has been itching for 
 a GREAT one since New Super Mario Bro. Look no further cos this game is just as fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioxx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  This have i buy in the last week. In this game can you playing with baby Mario, baby Peach, baby 
 DK, baby War io and baby Bowser but the first pair level's are same as in Yoshi Island for the 
 GBA. But i found it not fair that you baby War io and baby Bowser the team leave as you the second 
 boss of world 3 and 4 have beaten. And it's not funny that ther no more level's are than in Yoshi 
 Island. And in Yoshi Island have you hidden item's and not in this game and the hidden item's are 
 good in hard level's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  Yoshi has done it again! This is a great game for everyone. The graphics and sound are great and 
 the game play is non stop! I could not put it down the first few days I got it. You are Yoshi and 
 you have to take care of the babies (mario, Donkey King, Peach) just to name a few. You are carrying 
 them on your back through the worlds and they all have different things they can do. The game is 
 a lot of fun and worth the money you pay. I say get it and you'll love it. Classic DS game in the 
 making! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bstcrew
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a cute game, it's hypercute infact. So if your one of those guys who has an aversion to 
 cuteness you'd better steer clear of this one. I don't have that problem however.
  
  I noticed that people who played the previous yoshi game say that this one is somewhat too similar 
 to those games for its own good. They complain that the changes they made in this version are too 
 small and they suffer from 'game flashback syndrome' when playing Yoshi's Island DS. I don't have 
 that problem as well.
  
  The gameplay feels nice and tight. Sure the dual screen layout sometimes makes you do do stupid 
 things like hitting an enemy that was 'hidden' between the screens. But those kind of mishaps only 
 happen on rare occasions and the game is forgiving enough for it to remain fun to play. The level 
 design just begs for exploration and replay. They are quite big but not too big so it doesn't get 
 too frustrating (a little frustration is ok in platformers.) The soundeffects and music only add 
 to the whole cuteness factor this game has. Allthough the music sounds too much like the music 
 that comes out of baby toys at times.
  
  All in all this game is easily recommendable to anyone with a ds that is looking for a long lasting 
 fun platformer. I personaly like it better then New Super Mario. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Well seeing the review of this game on gamespot at 9.1 and a million of commericals on tv, I am 
 like fine I am sick of seeing this game in my face and decided to buy another game for my DS still 
 have had no luck on getting my hands on a wii. The game starts off as a buch of villians are stealing 
 babies and they drop 2 of them because of a stork (Baby Peach, Baby Mario) Yoshi's find them and 
 they decide to go help all the other babies and so your adventure begins! You start off on lvl 
 1 like always and theres 8 sections to each level and some bonus areas to unlock later. its just 
 a flat face map and you click the box and you go to each level, so its not as interesting map as 
 NSMB was. Just so you know I didn't play for the first Yoshi's Island for the GBA so this is my 
 first so everything I say refelts on what I thought of this game on its own. The graphics in the 
 game are like crayon graphics and so you will either hate the look or love it. Its sorta like the 
 Legend of Zelda Wind Waker was you either liked the style or hated it. Well I honestly don't like 
 it. I personnaly liked the graphics of New Super Mario Bro's alot better. The music is all joyful 
 and kinda feels like it repeats itself way to much for a loop. For this kind of game the music 
 suits it fine, but the castles needed better music and I just didn't like the music that much. 
 The sounds are ok, with yoshi eating enemies, to your babies crying there asses off. Each baby 
 has there own ability to make them special and theres certain spots you will need to use each babies 
 power. The babies are baby mario, peach, DK, Bowser, Wario and thats all I have seen right now that 
 you can use. Using your babies powers and your own yoshi abilities you go and collect red coins, 
 to star points for when your baby falls off they go down and if they hit 0 you die basically. (The 
 game guild says there kidnapped but when you restart the level you get them right back) Also you 
 get flowers. All these add up to a score of 100 points. For a bonus if you get 100 points for all 
 8 levels of that level you unlock bonus areas for that level. It also adds to the replay value 
 of the game. The difficulty in this game is way to hard for the type of game this would connect 
 with the most. Like since you can't die in this game by getting hit and such the only way to die 
 is by running out of time when you get hit and your baby isn't back with you, or you get crunched, lava 
 and so forth. So the game adds a million of those ways to die. Smashing blocks, LOTS of cliffs and 
 so on. It wouldn't be a probly if there were a way to bounce back up those cliffs but you can't. 
 You can try doing air jump to get a bit more air but usualy you just fall to your doom which feels 
 like your falling forever considering your dead anyway whats the point of falling for 10 seconds? 
 With all the bonus material to get and bonus levels to unlock this game should take you a while 
 to beat, but the difficulty is just to tough for someone who wants to just sit back and play a 
 nice easy fun game. If you wanted a challange in these kind of games though then get this seriously! 
 I find myself dying way more then any mario game so your lives don't just keep stacking up they 
 do fall down lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerrav
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat, I have to start out with something negative; NO YOSHIS SINGING ON THE TITLE 
 SCREEN!!! : ( Remember in the SNES version? The cute out of tune singing Yoshis??? Oh well, I suppose 
 I can get over it. Maybe...
  
  Gameplay - Nice to see the same solid mechanics from the the other Yoshi games crossed over well 
 to the DS format. The switching between the babies adds much to the way you can go about completing 
 the large levels of the game. While some levels do require a linear selection, you'll probably 
 need to play some levels twice to get all the goodies w/ the use of the different abilities offered.
 
  
  Graphics - What we've come to expect from the Yoshi games. The crayon effect works very well. While 
 it looks cartoonish, you never get the sense that you're being 'deprived' graphic wise due to how 
 smooth everything is. Some of the scaling is a bit pixelated, but nothing too detouring.
  
  Sound - Well, like I said, a bit bumped that I wasn't greeted w/ the singing Yoshis. The music 
 that is present is okay, but there's not too much in the way of variety. You'll here much of the 
 same music for a varied number of levels. I personally didn't think the music for the castle levels 
 'fit'. Just seemed out of place. SFX wise, not bad... but I can't help but feel that more could 
 have been done w/ the character sounds. The screaming effects for the different babies, while appreciated, 
 annoyed the hell outta me. Please, don't ever ask me to baby sit your kids. :) Value - Huge levels. 
 Plenty of things to find in each level. You'll end up going back to some levels to complete your 
 scores. This is one of the first games in awhile where I feel compelled to complete each level 
 w/ a perfect score. Mini games can be unlocked but they're ultimately not all that involving. Trust 
 me, the full game will keep you plenty busy. Tilt - This game presented me w/ my first platform 
 experience on the DS. I'm glad I picked it up. If you're a fan of the other Yoshi games, you will 
 not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtizio
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Meet the new Yoshi. Same as the old Yoshi.
  
  During its best bits, it feels a lot like the original; new babies mean new abilities; it's nice 
 and challenging.
  
  Return to the colorful wilds of Yoshi's Island in a new platforming adventure for Nintendo DS. 
 A mysterious floating island has suddenly appeared over peaceful Yoshis Island. Soon after its 
 arrival, a gaggle of kids vanishes from the island school. Thankfully, Baby Mario, Baby Peach and 
 Baby Donkey Kong manage to avoid being kidnapped. Now, Yoshi and the three young superstars must 
 set out on a wild and colorful quest to rescue the kids and investigate the ominous island hovering 
 overhead. Thanks to the power of Nintendo DS, all of the lush vistas and perilous paths of Yoshi's 
 Island span two screens.
  
  There are certainly new elements within Yoshi's Island DS, so don't think the developers were simply 
 lazy in the DS production. One of the main elements is adding strategy to Yoshi's piggyback partner; 
 the original concept was to simply get Baby Mario to the end of the game, which hasn't changed 
 in Yoshi's Island DS. But here, Mario's not helpless. Or, rather, the package Yoshi hauls actually 
 changes things up: Mario gives Yoshi a running ability. Pick up Baby Princess Peach in the later 
 levels and you can float on the currents of wind. Baby Donkey Kong gives a nod to Donkey Kong Jr. 
 and climbs vines, and a Baby Bowser gives a fireball spitting ability. At the very least, we've 
 now got four more characters that Nintendo can add to its next set of sports games.
  
  Though this baby element really allows the level designers to change things up and add a newer 
 puzzle element to the established game design, Baby Wario feels like he's a last minute addition 
 that wasn't tested properly. His ability is in his magnet he carries around, attracting metallic 
 objects like coins and metal platforms and ledges. Problem is, his magnet is incredibly wonky, 
 sometimes missing items that are right next to him. Sure, you have to let Wario face the object 
 you want to attract, but it doesn't work some of the time, and clunks up what should be seamless 
 game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguru43
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  The good: good gameplay. challenging levels. unique characters. colorful graphics. fun minigames.
 
  
  The bad: lame music. top screen is barely used. dull story.
  
  Yoshis story is about kamek stealing luigi. and all the Nintendo babies have to go on an adventure 
 to get the baby back. With each baby you pick up, they all have special abilities. mario can dash 
 with yoshi and has bouncing eggs. Peach has a parcel to fly through the air whenever there is a 
 draft of air. She has weak eggs that are slow. Wario can attract coins and other metal objects. he 
 can get coins through walls. and control metal platforms. Baby bowser can blow fire to light up 
 dark caverns and melt ice. However you can not eat anything with yoshi when you have baby bowser 
 on his back, DK is prolly the best baby. He has the most powerful. He can swing from the different 
 vines and also has explosive eggs. He also has this dash attack that is really powerful. You have 
 to use these babies to advance through the game to save baby luigi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  Anyone remember Yoshi Topsy Turvy or whatever. I never played it, so I really don't know much about 
 it, but all I heard was that it sucked. Well, this game isn't that bad, but this is not Yoshi's 
 Island. This feels like a game that needed a whole bunch more time in the development studio, and 
 a fresh coat of paint
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The game play hasn't changed. Thats a good thing and a bad thing. Bad thing, platformers have evolved 
 in the past decade, and the just has a slightly aged feeling to it. It still plays good, but its 
 just not the same. Playing the two games side by side, you wouldn't know a difference.
  
  They did add one new mechanic, and took out a few. No more sweet items. WHY ARE THERE NO WATERMELON. 
 Now that I got that off my chest, all of the items are gone, but they added baby switching for 
 some very rudimentary puzzles. Oh, and the game is so easy, that you should have over 100 lives 
 by the third world, if not the second world. Thats it. Throw in some crappy bonus games, with tacked 
 on touch screen support, and you got Yoshi's Island DS.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Okay, so Yoshi's Island looks exactly like the old one, minus all of the cool cut scenes. Hell, 
 even all of the cool effects are taken out. If you like 2D platformers with a lack of polish, this 
 one will do you fine.
  
  SOUND
  
  The music is weak. I remember Yoshi's Island's awesome tunes. I could hum them right now. These 
 new tunes are terrible. They just don't live up to the fact that this should be something BETTER 
 than Yoshi's Island. This game wasn't ready yet, and the music just shows it.
  
  Sound is okay, if you don't like babies screaming, then stay away, if you do, you'll love the sound. 
 All of the other sounds have been changed a tiny bit that is SO annoying that I can't stand it. 
 Its okay to change sounds, but don't just change them just enough so I notice, while it being nearly 
 the same sound.
  
  VALUE
  
  Yoshi's Island = 6 worlds, Multiplayer, all the extra's of this game
  
  Yoshi's Island DS = 
 5 worlds (what the...) , No multiplayer, still all of the extras.
  
  TILT
  
  By being a ripoff of one of the greatest platformers of all time, you can't help but feel cheated. 
 Sure, if you look past the crappy story ripoff, blatent changing of the engine to be weaker, and 
 lack of touch screen support (I don't count this against the game, though its worth noting) and 
 just being on a more powerful system with WORSE graphics. Oh, tilt is usually the story for me, 
 but this game got so far on the making me angry scale, I decided to put all of the reasons I am 
 disappointed here.
  
  OVERALL
  
  This could have been so much more. Nintendo, every game I play of yours makes me fear the worst 
 for Phantom Hourglass, and thank the gods Din, Nayru and Farore that this wasn't in house developed... 
 Artoon (something like that) needs to be sent to another company, and not to ruin any more of my 
 favorite series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raykuza
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  In this sequal of Yoshi's Island for the SNES/GBA, Kamek is back and has kidnapped the pre-moustached 
 brothers again. But this time he's kidnapped even more babies including the infant forms of Peach, 
 Donkey Kong, and Wario. This game is much more in depth than the orignal and much, much more challenging. 
 One of the new features is the ability to switch between babies and use their powers. The switching 
 system is very smooth. While everything in the game is excellent, I wish there was more to the 
 music in the game. It's more of a subtle component than it was in the last game. Yoshi's Island 
 DS is surprisingly difficult I found myself wasting life after life in several levels. The game 
 makes up for this, however, by handing out lives like Halloween candy. During most of the game 
 I had around 60 - 70 lives at any given time.
  
  Overall this game is very fun once you get past the horribly frustrating parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LINKTHECHAMPION
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that every series has a bad point, and most sequels aren't very good. Even 
 Mario and Zelda have had a bad point. But if they continue the Yoshi's Island Series with games 
 like this, then Yoshi's Island will never have a bad point. The first game in the series was amaizing, 
 and this spectacular sequel continues the saga. The Yoshi's Island games may not be hard, or long 
 (unless, of course you're going for 100% completion) but they sure are fun!!!
  Graphics (10) - I love this style of animation! I liked it in the first game, and in the second 
 game it only got better! I don't know what it is about them, or why I like them, I just do for 
 some reason. To me it seems that the graphics have gotten crisper and clearer since the last Yoshi's 
 Island, but maybe it's just me......
  Sound (8) - The only thing I don't like about the cheesy (but still awesome) sound in this game 
 is the babies crying. It drives me insane! But the rest of the music is pretty awesome. The music 
 may be cheesy, but it's still catchy!
  Value (10) - You'll be getting every penny's worth of that $30 for this game, no matter who you 
 are.
  Reviewer's Tilt (10) - I have no idea what this means, but since Yoshi's Island DS rocks so much, 
 it deserves a 10.
  Gameplay (10) - This is what every game dreams to be in this department. Almost no games are better 
 than Yoshi's Island in Gameplay. The simple controls make Yoshi better than before, R button for 
 eggs, L button lock, control pad move, and b-button jump. And the addition of more babies just 
 makes it better. Being able to climb vines (Baby DK) , Run faster (Baby Mario) , glide along on air 
 currents (Baby Peach) , attract coins (Baby Wario) , and shoot flames (Baby Bowser) just seems a 
 lot better than the old save the baby while it cries and does nothing routine that I (and many 
 others) saw in the still excellent Yoshi's Island. Some of the levels are really difficult, and 
 some are a piece of cake.
  Overall: This game is a great experience, and I predict it will be remembered for a loooooong time. 
 You'll get your money's worth, don't worry, this game is awesome, You'll like it, and if you want 
 to get 100%, you'll be playing for a long time. If you like Yoshi's Island, Yoshi, or neither, 
 buy this game, I'm pretty sure you'll like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogerC44
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  What can I say this game is one of the best games for the DS. If you have a DS, a Mario fan, a 
 Yoshi fan, then this is a game for you. Pretty much it reminds me of another Yoshi's Island game 
 that wasn't on the DS. It's always cool when I can get the eggs and stuff like that. But sometimes 
 words can't describe this game. I really think that this is a great game not only for the DS but 
 for Nintendo. I'd will give this game two thumbs up! If you haven't played this game and you know 
 someone who has this game ask to borrow it because this experience isn't to be ignored! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zyroglex
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  When Yoshi Touch &amp; Go came out, it had a few good ideas but it didn't FEEL like the classic 
 Yoshi's island game that was so popular. At last, Yoshi's Island DS has come out. this game is 
 by far superior to the original Yoshi's Island game. I was sort of hoping that the character sprites 
 would be 3-D, like new super mario bros. I also would've liked some sort of co-op mode. Otherwise, 
 the gameplay is terrific and the game has a good story. You play as yoshi, but depending on which 
 baby is riding him (baby mario, baby peach, baby DK, baby wario, baby bowser) , his abilities change. 
 The difficulty of the levels range from really easy to stupidly hard, so everything works out. 
 This is one of the best platformers I have ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  Before I go into my review, I want whoever reads this to know that I absolutely LOVED and still 
 LOVE the original Yoshi's Island. When I first got it, it was literally the only game my brother 
 and I played for eight months. In preparation for the arrival of YIDS, I broke out my GBA YI port 
 to get reaccostumed to everything again. So, when I started to play YIDS, I really had the original 
 fresh in my mind. And now, on to the review.
  
  Graphics-wise, the game looks great. I don't mind the fact everything is bigger. It makes since 
 the levels take up two screens. I love the new expressions Yoshi has. Regarding gameplay, the controls 
 seem not as tight as they were in the original. The levels are bigger, which is always a good thing. 
 I kinda enjoy the fact that items are not included in the game. It makes getting a 100% in a level 
 that much harder. More challenge is good, imo, because NSMB severely lacked it. I don't care that 
 it's so easy to get extra lives because you need them. The only thing that has really bugged me 
 so far is the gap between the screens. It makes so much more sense to me if they didn't treat that 
 gap as an actual gap in visual space. If the view was just continued on the top screen, it would 
 have made for an easier time. The way it is, it's just tricky finding some things and I personally 
 have had a really hard time shooting moving objects on the top screen. The target minigame is near 
 impossible. Maybe I just need more time to get used to it. Right now, it's really bothering me.
 
  
  I have mixed feelings about the sound in the game. The music is decent. But, I think coming into 
 the game, I was expecting something like the music of the original. It's calm and simple in YIDS. 
 As far as the sound effects are concerned, they're alright. They changed some of the sound effects 
 (why, I have no idea) . There's no longer a sparkle sound when you unleash stars from a ? cloud. 
 And when you collect the stars, it sounds like you're gathering coins. What the heck? Maybe I'm 
 just a purist. In general, I'm actually disappointed with this game's sound, and that's why it 
 earned the lowest mark on the rating of all the categories.
  
  Overall, I do highly recommend this game, to lovers of the original YI and newcomers alike. If 
 you wished NSMB had been more challenging, you will come to love this game because it IS challenging. 
 Some elements may take some getting used to, but the game as a whole is really solid. Yoshi's back. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BluemanSteele
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the original Yoshi's Island on the SNES and have found Yoshi's Island 2 DS to 
 contain all the same fun plus more.
  
  Yoshi's enemy swallowing and egg producing was a feature in Super Mario World for the SNES. When 
 Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island debuted, you found yourself in control of Yoshi himself (herself?) . 
 Yoshi's quest to reunite baby Mario with Baby Lugi was presented in a drawn look with bright colors 
 and at times looked rendered in crayon. These cute graphics though where a sly cover for a very 
 challenging game.
  
  Everything I loved from SMW2: YI has appeared in Yoshi's Island 2 DS, including screen filling enemies, 
 interactive objects and egg throwing skills; but it did not stop there.
  
  Though there is little use of the touch screen, the dual screens provide views vital to gameplay. 
 Much like using the R and L buttons let you look left and right in Super Mario World, you can adjust 
 your gameplay to be focused on the top or bottom screen, giving you a view far below or above you.
 
  
  Besides new enemies there is a slew of new babies which actually change your abilities in game. 
 Baby Mario can dash, Peach can grab wind currents and Warrior can attract coins. Baby Kong and 
 Bowser also appear helping you grab vines and shoot fireballs respectively.
  
  Changing to the right baby (via Stork Stops ) is more than just a preference as each baby can see 
 certain blocks or reach certain areas. What's more you will often backtrack to cleared levels with 
 new babies to access previously unreachable areas.
  
  Yoshi's Island 2 DS starts easy but quickly increases in difficulty. Getting by certain areas can 
 require great thinking instead of just reflexes. Overall the game is a solid platformer with reliable 
 fun but with some unique gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toadster101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  It feels like it was just yesterday. E3 2006 showcased many upcoming hits. This game hogged the 
 spotlight ( at least, for me ) . After months of waiting for this game it finally hits shelves. 
 Is it worth it? Hell yeah!!
  
  Gameplay: YIDS plays exactly like the original. The controls are tight, and they feel perfect. 
 If you were good at the SNES masterpiece you will probably be able to jump right in to this. I 
 didn't even have to learn anything really, its simple and easy to learn. Even if you haven't played 
 the predecessor, this game will be a cinch to learn. Though ( not fully ) a cinch to play. Yoshi's 
 Island DS starts out basic and pretty easy, but the difficulty does indeed rise. This game is waaay 
 harder than New Super Mario bros. which is a good thing. There is also a lot more to do. Unlocking 
 all of the secrets is the replay value. Baby coins, and flowers are just a few of the games many 
 unlockables. Speaking of babies, you can control a wide variety of babies. Each has his/her own 
 unique ability. For example, Princess Peach can use her parasol as an enhanced flutter-jump, and 
 use it to float. There are nearly 60 levels hidden in this game, and most of them are extremely 
 long to boot.
  
  Graphics: Wow. The graphics are even better than the first game's!! Mostly consisting of crayon 
 style sprites, the graphics are quite nice to look at and are just a sample of what the DS can 
 do. Some of the enemy sprites look really Gameboy , but overall everything is good. I preferred 
 New Super Mario bros. graphical style better, but this game is in a close second, fo being the 
 most beautiful platformer on Nintendo's handheld.
  
  Sound: Sadly, the sound isn't even close to as good as its prequel. The sound in this game is great, 
 though it doesn't have the magical touch that the original did. The tunes are good, but just aren't 
 memorable. The SFX however, are greatly constructed and entertaining to hear. You have to admit, 
 though, the babies cries do get annoying. If you thought Mario was annoying, just wait until you 
 hear the others!!
  
  Replay: As I said, there is tons to do in this meaty platformer. This game has tons of levels each 
 consisting of many secrets even the hardcore may struggle with. I wish this had mulitplayer, but 
 its so big and challenging that it will keep your attention for a very long time. At least, until 
 you find something else to play.
  
  Buy, Rent, or Leave: If you are a platforming fan, this game is a must. Even if you are a fan of 
 the original Yoshi's Island or anything made by Nintendo, I encourage you to buy it. Rent it if 
 you are a casual gamer, or are a hardcore FPS fan. Don't even think about leaving this masterpiece. 
 Heck don't even rent it. Just buy the damn game!!
  
  Conclusion: I actually think this game is better than New Super Mario bros. and I know you some 
 of you agree. Please check this game out. For the sake of entertainment. Artoon has finally made 
 a great game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GerssonOviedo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Last weekend, I began my journey through the lushous flower fields and grass lands of fun and wonder. 
 Yoshi's Island DS is one of my favorite DS Games now, not because it's Mario, not because it's 
 Nintendo, and not even because it's cute, but because it all comes together to create one of Nintendo's 
 finest Next Gen Sequels
  
  The formula of this game is simple and effective: Take the concept, style, and feel of an old classic, 
 and revamp it in respects of the old one, knowing what elements of it made it good.
  
  Easier said than done, Nintendo's had several semi-successes lately but overall hasn't reached 
 the standards of their predecessors, such as Mario Vs. Donkey Kong and The New Super Mario Bros. 
 . But this time Nintendo's hit the bulls-eye, on what gamers want and how we want it. Surprisingly, 
 they reached this goal with the help of Artoon, which created the Hit-And-Miss Yoshi Topsy Turvy 
 for the GBA, which by regular standards, was far too gimmicky and difficult. I'd say Artoon has 
 cleaned up pretty nicely, but they've managed to fit in some characters in the game that just don't 
 feel the same.
  
  Now that that's over with, back to Business.
  
  Yoshi's Island DS is a powerful installation on the Gaming Universe. It's fun, it's addictive, 
 it's got great replay value. YIDS is just plain wonderful. The game-play is blessed with Non-Gimmicky 
 Controls, that would force you to use the Stylus. Making this game straight-forward, to-the-point, 
 and easy to use. The controls are well-used, although you'll find they didn't force this game to 
 use all of them, which once again: Good.
  
  Gameplay is addictive, enjoyably hard, and wonderfully familiar. The Baby-Switching doesn't really 
 get annoying either, although shooting at something on the other screen gets a little difficult.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Graphics are... WOW. Just, wow. This is some of the most beautifully sprited Art in a game I've 
 seen, it does an even better job than the original Yoshi's Island on this part. Theres only 2 words 
 I can use to describe this game's Graphics with: Eye Candy
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  The Music and SFX's in this game are pretty good, Artoon's manage to stick in some new and old 
 sound effects that are highly memorable. The Music is good, and it doesn't get in the way of the 
 game. Just don't expect a Master Score, it's supposed to give the game a fun and easy feel. Good 
 Sound Quality.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  This game has great value, especially for the mere 35 dollars I spent for it.. Currently, I would 
 say the level of value for me on this game is Precious .
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  Reviewer's Tilt, who doesn't like Nintendo, Yoshi, or Babies? I mean, come on, I love em.
  
 
  Reviewer's Tilt: +8
  
  Well, I'm gonna rap this review up. And no, that's not a typo, I'm rapping it:
  
  Artoon tried 
 but Artoon failed,
  They tried again, but now they sailed,
  They used to be the lower-class,
  But now they kick everybody's - Alright, alright, I'm sorry, 
 I couldn't resist.
  
  *AHEM*
  
  Great game, I don't usually tell people to believe the hype, but I think the hype is well-earned 
 on this one. But that doesn't mean you shouldn't try it for yourself anyways. Infact, if you own 
 a DS, I IMPLORE you to get this game. I guarantee you'll love it, we here at GameSpot already do. 
 Summary:
  Artoon=Good
  Nintendo=Better
  This Game=Amazing
  Worth the Money=Definitely
  Believing the Hype?: No need, it's that good.
  Get this?: For the 
 Love of God, yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ybrik222
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  You turn on the game. You see the rotating island of DOOM! Well not doom, more like quirky enemies 
 and bawling babies. You start a new file, and the beginning's the same!?!? Don't worry. It just 
 seems the same. The first few levels are quite similar to the old game, but don't let it fool you. 
 This is one great game. With some flaws. Story: Peace has returned to Yoshi's Island, but then 
 Kamek comes and starts kidnapping all of the island's babies! Luckily, the stork comes in and knocks 
 Baby Mario, Baby Peach, and an unknown baby out of Kamek's followers' hands. While Yoshi's taking 
 a walk, Baby Mario lands on Yoshi's back and Baby Peach floats in using a parasol. So the Yoshi's 
 and the stork decide to save the babies that are being kidnapped! Gameplay: If you fiddle with 
 the options a bit the control scheme is great! You can flutter jump and the different baby abilities 
 add a lot to the game. Although most of the game's bosses are better than the old one, some are 
 a bit too easy. But there's a HUGE problem here. In the space between the DS's two screens the 
 game's still playing. You could miss some very important things because of that. Graphics: The 
 game has beautiful graphics, and the bosses look great as well. Some fans of the old game might 
 not like the newer looking graphics though. Sound: Ok, when you listen to the first level's music, 
 you think: WHAT THE HELL?!?!?! It just sounds bad. Although the music in the game is pretty bad 
 (especially the castle music) , you'll get used to it. Value: This game is definitely worth it value 
 wise. The character coins and difficult secret and extra levels add a lot of replay value. The 
 main game takes about 10 hours, and it's always fun to try to get a higher score. Overall: This 
 game is a great game with some flaws. But don't let them get to you. I would recommend you buy 
 it no matter how old you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grafkhun
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 18, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- 9
  just like the first one which was already perfect. There is one new thing where you can switch 
 babies, this one new element adds so much to the traditional side scrolling controls and gameplay 
 of the first one. The worlds and stages are put together well and the levels are massive and lengthy 
 with plenty of secrets you will never see and items that are so well hidden it will take many runs 
 through to get them. the game is kinda easy but it feels perfect and the game is kinda generous 
 with lives and such but it isn't a total cakewalk but you will get a decent challenge.
  
  Graphics- 9
  the cartoony, hand drawn visuals are a bit childish but it fits the atmosphere perfectly 
 and the environments are nice and detailed too. The enemies are neat as well and the sprites look 
 great. the style and feel is youngy but who cares having shy guy guts and koopa blood would destroy 
 the game and so what if the locations have a lot of pink and yellow and are colorful? it's all 
 about the gameplay in 2-D games and the graphics just have to get the job done.
  
  Sound- 8
  The music is fitting and nice, also it wont get on your nerves and sound effects like 
 egg throwing and jumping are perfected so it sounds nice throughout the whole game and wont drive 
 you up a wall.
  
  Value- 8
  the main quest should last you about anywhere from 7 to 13 hours. this depends obviously on skill 
 level and if you got the right baby in the right place. Completing the game 100%, by getting the 
 character icons, red coins, flowers and secret levels and bonus will take another 15 or so hours. 
 (i think, that # was just an estimate as finding all the stuff in each huge level and gettin a 
 perfect score on each level is very challenging) .
  
  Tilt- 10
  what exactly is tilt? IDK but i think tilt is kinda like how the whole game flows and it runs. 
 It's similar to gameplay in my opinion but it also includes how much variety is in the games and 
 it's sort of an average. whatever i gave it a ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystians
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to retell the plot, cause everyone already know how it begins. Yup... this time instead 
 of Mario and Luigi being baby-napped. So are Baby Peach, Baby DK, Baby Wario, and Baby Bowser. 
 You being the adventure as Baby Mario and like before you go around levels collecting coins (red/yellow) , 
 flowers, stars, character coins, pooping out eggs and throwing them. The one difference you will 
 notice near the beginning is a fellow stork offering you help. This courteous stork is your answer 
 to changing the baby that Yoshi caries on his back. Each baby has a different ability which are 
 useful for collecting everything, and getting threw the levels. Scattered through out levels are 
 Stork Stops . When you touch them with Yoshi then change colors from yellow to red. This triggers 
 the stork to come flying with a baby in his mouth. Now all you have to do is jump up in the air 
 towards the stork and the baby changes. I have played the first Yoshi's Island for GBA. All have 
 to say it's exactly the same thing, which is the way i love it. Unfortunately for me i never had 
 the chance to play the SNES version. Which i have been told is the best game available for the 
 system. The game is fun and even though I'm not finished playing it, i can see that it's going 
 to be a very sweet ride till the end. One thing that i don't really like about the game is that 
 the Mini games are not really fun. I have unlocked a total of 4 now, and i have not gone back to 
 play them. As a conclusion i would recommend this to everyone. This is one game that is a must 
 have for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjajuggalo810
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  yoshis island ds is a great game but like nsmb is too similar to the original although some new 
 stuff and they did try with the replayablity but its too much like the original if ou like the 
 original and just wish it was longer its a great game if you never played the original its a great 
 game but if you p; layed the first one one time and thought thats enough or played so many times 
 you got sick if it then you probably dont want to buy this without triing it first so if you like 
 the first one or never played it get it id give it an 8.9 if you didnt like the first one or got 
 sick of it id give a 6.4 beecause of that i give the total score a 7.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roan23
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This Game is so great. i thought it will be like Yoshi Touched &amp; Go, and when i saw gamespot 
 review, i thought, why not try this game. I play about 2 mission, and it much better that the first 
 one. this game is totally addictive, and all the Mushroom Kingdom characters are so cute at their 
 baby version. The graphic is just right for this game, sound is perfect, and gameplay, the best. 
 It have lots of minigames, and it fun to replay the game. This game is perfect for all ages. It 
 one of the most have game for DS for this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knife_prty
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. Trust me. But since Yoshi's Island for the SNES was literally my 3rd favorite 
 game of all time, It's obvious for any game to live up to it's standards for me. I think the main 
 reason I loved and love the original so much is because at the time it was new and I was young 
 (games held more meaning with a wider imagination) , while nowadays it's considered one of favorites 
 out of nostalgia. However I am no longer young, and I obviously don't have any nostalgia for the 
 sequal because it's new. That said, I am rating this game on a COMPARISON basis. If I was rating 
 this game on a normal basis scores would be as follows: 10, 9, 8, 10, 9, overall a little higher.
 
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  Tried and true, very similar to the original. Levels are a lot longer though and you can swap babies 
 at 'stork stops'. Think 'donkey kong 64', this game is the 2 dimensional version of that. Very 
 interesting and serves to add more depth to the game.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  The graphics are a little bit of a problem for me. Don't get me wrong they are good: nice and clean. 
 But that's just the problem, the original's graphics were more so messy and childish, cluttered 
 and such. It's a nostalgic thing, so you new and sane players can ignore this complaint. But this 
 is particularily true with the sprites. They look like any other 2D scroller, small and clean. 
 the original's sprites were thickly drawn and crayon like. I miss that.
  
  Sound 6/10
  I have a huge issue with this. Again, if you're new to the game then: the sound is okay, if a little 
 soft. But for the rest of you who feel they need to see if this game lives up to the original: 
 The music is one big lulluby. It frankly sucks. Seriously the music in this game sucks. That's 
 okay for me though, I normally listen to real music while I play games. And also, I have Yoshi's 
 Island for the SNES on my computer. I could always just listen to the music from that and play 
 the game. Yah, I'm obsessed and yearning to have a familiar experience to what I had with the original.
 
  
  Value 10/10
  Like the original there's a score system and massive levels. However, this game's levels are a 
 lot bigger, which is awesome. Also the difficulty is easy if you don't bother collecting everything, 
 and hard with unlockables if you do collect everything. This is one fact I truely love about this 
 game, adjustable difficulty. Collecting everything in each level takes on average about 20 minutes 
 per level. While running through a level on average takes about 10 minutes. There are 50 levels 
 so an estimated guess would say that if you rushed thru (and didn't unlock the 5 extra levels by 
 collecting everything) you could spend around 8 hours (450 minutes) playing. If you collected everything 
 and played all 50 levels you can expect about 17 hours of play time (1000 minutes) . Like how I 
 calculated that? haha...
  
  Tilt 9/10
  Overall this game is very good for all new players, but in MY opinion it doesn't live all the way 
 up to the original, which is not a big deal, since I personally think no game sequal could ever 
 top that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Quite a long time ago, a game was launched for a classic console known as Yoshis Island. Later, 
 that game was remade for the Game Boy Advance, and was incredible for its generation. About 4 years 
 later, a sequel to the game was launched: this was Yoshis Island DS. It came out in the middle 
 of November.
  Nintendo has always been doing a good job, and always improving from the past. However, some games 
 were so good, that it seemed nearly impossible they could be improved. Yoshis Island DS is one 
 of the few improvements to a game that is already nearly perfect. Anyone who said sequels were 
 a bad thing, were proved wrong when they set their hands on this masterpiece. Yoshis Island DS 
 is a 2-D plat former in which you take control of a Yoshi in an attempt to reach the goal of the 
 level. Although it may sound identical to the first one, this game has its numerous twists, adding 
 to the already present fun. When you first pop this game in your DS and turn it on, you may be 
 bewildered, or you may be slightly amused. Those who played the original will be slightly amused, 
 those who are bewildered are those new to the series. I must admit the beginning short movie thing 
 seems way too identical to the story of the original game, and at first I thought it was the same 
 exact thing remade. As you start to play World 1, everything seems to identical to the initial 
 game. Well, as you progress you notice things begin to change. Among reaching the first fort (World 
 1-4) you will see that the boss is different. Also, Baby Peach who is found in World 1 changes 
 everything. Her ability to help Yoshi fly due to certain winds is fun and okay at first, but after 
 you unlock her more fun things occur. Once you move through the game, you eventually unlock the 
 other babies, and inherit their special traits. All of the babies help you out, and are required 
 for certain locations. Levels are different, and Worlds change completely when getting further. 
 You may eventually find the game to be tricky, as some arent just running through. Puzzles come 
 about and mazes are sent at you. Forts and Castles soon get harder, and story becomes more and 
 more suspenseful. So far, Im finding the game short, but believe me, it does get more challenging 
 the farther you proceed. The usual items are there for you to collect to achieve a high score in 
 each level, and the game is played on both screens, making things confusing and also enjoyable. 
 The graphics are improved and seem to be brighter Overall this game was worth it, and I really 
 enjoy it! No matter how mature you are, you just cant say no to this instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmadmud
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  The oh-so-adorable dinosaur is back in all his reptilian glory. This time, Yoshi and his cute pals 
 Baby Mario, Peach, Wario, and DK must save a kidnapped Luigi from Magikoopa Kamek and his menacing 
 flying fortress. Once again, we experience the carnivorous, egg-laying action Yoshi fans have come 
 to love. Like its predecessor, Yoshi's Island 2 has the classical 2D side-scrolling action and 
 colorful pastel artwork that brought Nintendo to prominence. Though some levels get pretty long, 
 controls remain fluid and gameplay simple.
  
  A spiffy new function allows Yoshi to switch babies on his back. Each baby has special abilities: 
 Baby Mario allows Yoshi to dash at top speed, Peach's parasol lets Yoshi float, DK can break though 
 boulders and climb vines, and Wario's giant magnet grabs metal items. When Yoshi gets hurt, the 
 baby on his back flies away in a bubble and begins to cry. The bubble must be popped within a time 
 limit or you lose a life. Just straining to recapture a bubble that seems to like its freedom is 
 frustrating enough; hearing a fussy baby whining at the same time does not help things. And beware: 
 the high-pitched crying sound effects may be too much for those with sensitive ears. Speaking of 
 sound, overall effects remain pretty much the same. Whether that's a good or bad thing is up to 
 you, though I have heard quite a few complaints about Yoshi's flutter jump squeal, which sounds 
 a bit too much like constipation. However, despite small annoyances, Yoshi's Island 2 is fun and 
 light-hearted play. A tongue of praise to Yoshi's Island 2 for not only remaining true to the classical 
 style but also adding new elements to keep things fresh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burger_boy_9
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  the game is very fun. if you were a fan of the first yoshis island then youll most likely love 
 this one the greatest part of the game is its always fun even when your stick or in a hard spot. 
 this game i would still recomend to be rented fisrt incase it doesnt suit your style. the game 
 could have great potential on the wii in my eyes. one thing i like about the game is the use of 
 the stylus because it doesnt matter if your left or right handed because i am left handed. there 
 arent many downsides to the game unless you conspire againt yoshi like some people lol. this is 
 a good game for begginers to the ds. the game still is not what i had expected because its yoshi 
 and almost everyone loves yoshi but for some reason i expect a lot more from yoshi . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonelezz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Its been almost 11 years when Yoshi's Island 2 hit the snes on 1995 which made it an unique game 
 starring Yoshi. Being one of the most colorful games at its time, nintendo made another release 
 of Yoshi's Island on the gba, aka Yoshi's Island: Super Mario Advance 3 . Mario advance 3 had been 
 on the gba since 2002, almost 4 years when it arrived on the gba having the simliar gameplay and 
 graphics as Yoshi's Island 2. Both games had made fans of mario try a new type of game that had 
 new story, heroes, and gameplay. Now that 4 years have passed since the gba version was released, 
 Nintendo has remade Yoshi's Island for the DS and has brought a whole new adventure for gamers 
 to enjoy.
  
  Yoshi's Island DS stars as Yoshi as the main character and following him up are different colored 
 Yoshi's that play along as you progress through the story. The main story behind Yoshi's Island 
 is that the babies of the mario world had been kidnapped and are being taken away to the castle 
 of the evil MagicKoopa aka Kamek. 2 of the babies had been dropped from the sky and fell on Yoshi 
 when he was taking a stroll on Yoshi's Island. Now that 2 of the babies are in Yoshi's rightful 
 hand, youll have to adventure into Yoshi's Island and get to the magikkoopa castle to rescue back 
 the rest of the babies that have been kidnapped by Kamek. When you first start up the game, youll 
 run into a intro sequence that tells a bit of the story of Yoshi's Island and where it'll start, 
 but you can always skip this. Once your are in the beginning of the menu, youll be able to create 
 a save file, and up 3 files are can be saved in one game cartridge. When you have made a game saved 
 file, youll come into another menu that has 2 options for you and 2 that are locked. Adventure 
 mode brings you straight into the game and the other is option mode letting you set the settings 
 of the game. During adventure mode you'll come into the world map which has 5 different worlds 
 and 8 different stages in each world. Depending on how long you want to finish the game is entirely 
 up to you to decide. You can always return to the original levels in case you have missed an item 
 or a special bonus in that level.
  
  Just like the new super mario bros games, after 3 levels you will come upon the castle and fight 
 the castle boss. When you have defeated the boss, you'll be able to continue on your adventure 
 and sometimes you'll be able to find babies that helps Yoshi on his adventure. Each Level will 
 consist of a different colored Yoshi. There are up to 8 or more different colored Yoshi's and each 
 for one level. You can have up to 5 babies that you can get through out the game, baby mario and 
 peach are for you to begin with. You can find baby dk, baby bowser, and baby wario. Each baby will 
 let Yoshi' do new things that can help you get to your goal on each level. You can switch the babies 
 on screen depending which ever you want. So when Yoshi gets attack or hit by an enemy, the baby 
 that you have on your back will start to float away giving you a certain amount of time to get 
 it before its too late. If the baby is floating away and you get hit during that time, Yoshi will 
 just stay in that place for a split second while the time keeps ticking. If the time ends and you 
 dont save Yoshi then you'll lose a life and start over from your checkpoint or the beginning of 
 the level. There are many secrets in each level that consist of 30 stars, 20 red coins, and 5 flowers 
 that form your score when you finish the level. When you finish each level and you think you are 
 missing some items. You will have the option of returning to that level and play it once more to 
 find everything that you missed.
  
  Now the controls are pretty simple for Yoshi's Island DS, it plays very similar to Yoshi's Island 
 on the snes. Your typical D pad that lets you control where you want Yoshi to go, and the b button 
 to jump. if you hold down the b button during a jump and it will give Yoshi a second jump which 
 lets Yoshi reach to higher plane. If you tap the y button Yoshi will eat his foes depending whats 
 the size of the foe you eat. Now you have 2 options with what you want to do with that foe in your 
 mouth. The first option is to spit it back out and aim it at other enemies on the ground, or the 
 2nd option is to press the down button on the d pad to make eggs. When you have eggs you can use 
 the R shoulder button or the A button to shoot your eggs. When your shooting your eggs there will 
 be a cursor that comes out on the screen going up and down depending which direction you are facing. 
 You can hold cursor at a point you want it to stay with the L button. If you are about to shoot 
 your egg and you want to cancel it, all you have to do is just tap the down button or the Y button 
 and you ll exit out of the egg stance. Another special move that is back is the butt stomp. Simple 
 use of the b button to make Yoshi jump and then by pressing the down button you can do the butt 
 stomp. You can change these options in the options mode depending which button configuration you 
 want.
  
  The graphics are amazing in this handheld series that brings many different colours into the game. 
 The cut scenes are filled with animation while the back ground has keeps moving as it were in the 
 real world. There are many things that are lively and move a lot during the game. This does not 
 affect the gameplay at all and you'll never run into an issue of slow frame rates. The back ground 
 consist of 2d and 3d objects. The 3d objects really look like they are far away and fits well into 
 the game. Many of the worlds of Yoshi's Island will have different environments that you can explore 
 that really stands out. Each Yoshi has a distinct color that stands out and looks great depending 
 which Yoshi you like. The enemies and the bosses also look amazing and you will want to keep coming 
 back for more. One of the amazing parts of the game is when the eggs pop and blow up in front of 
 the enemy making little fireworks giving some funny moments to gamers.
  
  Many of you may think that the sound and music are a little weird or kiddish. But having played 
 it for so long and enjoying these sound effects, it really makes this game unique in its own way. 
 Yoshi will have his familiar sounds that we all know when he jumps and does his butt stomp. There 
 is a lot of humming sounds but it never seems to get boring during your adventure. Each egg that 
 pops sounds like it was popcorns coming out of the pop corn machine. The music in this game is 
 just cute and great for gamers that want to relax and enjoy. You'll mostly be hearing soft tunes 
 and little beats that just keeps the game moving. Depending which area your in there are different 
 musical themes for each world. Many of the musical themes will make you hum along with the game.
 
  
  All in all this franchise of Yoshi's Island has come a long way. Many gamers that seek a new adventure 
 with Yoshi will find this game a must get and keep. Even for gamers that are new to this game will 
 enjoy the new type of gameplay thats different from Mario with cute graphics and musical themes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamJ
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 14, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  first let me tell you that i really loved yoshi's island.. i still love it. it's in my opinion 
 the best 2d jum'n run out there; with its nice graphics, awesome gameplay, superb sound.. i could 
 go on and on..
  
  so clearly i couldn't wait for yoshi's island ds and had very high expectations.
  sadly i have 
 been very disappointed..
  the first thing you think when you start up the game and see the title screen is hm, this time 
 they completely rendered the island in 3d - probably the ingame graphics will be improved in comparison 
 to the last one, too 
  then you start your game and start to realize that there's something wrong...
  the overworld 
 music is simply just terrible where as i absolutely loved it in the original game.. but it's not 
 just the overworld music that completely sucks.. until now each and every track and sound effect 
 is not worthy of a yoshi's island game. the sound is mostly boring and seems completely out of 
 place, uninspired and loveless.. (never in my life have I heard more unsuitable music in a castle 
 level)
  the graphics are pretty similar to the first game here and there are some new effects but some 
 character models, like the man-eating-flower or those 2 guys in the castle areas that hop top of 
 each other (sorry, dont know the original names but you know what I mean) , simply looked better 
 in first game. they give the impression of having been drawn and animated poorly.. compare the 
 2 games and see for yourself.
  lastly and most importantly: the gameplay.
  i remember when i played yoshi's island on snes and gba and the game already had me in the first 
 level. it just made click - everything was just right.
  well, in this title i'm still waiting for this click sensation.. i am playing the game and i'm 
 still waiting for it to capture me.. but until yet there has just been disappointment. the gameplay 
 seems as uninspired as the sound and the graphics.. as if nintendo had not made the game themselves 
 but hired some company that did not quite get the uniqueness of the first game or simply was not 
 able to reproduce it.
  small example: why the f*** do i have two screens for the gameplay when i still have to look up 
 all the time (press the directional-up button) to see if there is something hidden in the outer 
 screen area (in-between the 2 screens) . one really just can wonder what the developers where thinking 
 when they did that...
  I could go on, but I guess you get the idea
  
  so to sum it up: the game might be appealing to people who did not play the first one.. and thus 
 have no clue of how great this game could and should be.
  fans of the original game: definitely give it a try.. but dont get your hopes up too high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleDragon1
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 13, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  By no means I'm a nintendo fanboy but Yoshi's island is quite possibly the the best title on the 
 DS. Nintendo has managed to improve on the original Yoshi's island in almost every possible way. 
 Just the amazing graphical presentation with the crayon backgrounds and characters. The sound effects 
 with the Yoshi stomping and little mario's cry to the little melodies of finding new secrets are 
 very cute and well placed. I do agree with Frank Provo that the music is a little understated and 
 IMHO a little boring but still fits the feel of Yoshi's island nicely. Yoshi's island as a platformer 
 by far has the most depth out of any other one they have ever made. The only other that comes to 
 mind or even close would be Donkey Kong Country. Nintendo is really the only company that makes 
 games for EVERYONE who can find enjoyment in them. Yoshi's island is a great example of that. Anyone 
 with a DS must at least try Yoshi's island for the simple fact of it's depth, replayability, challenge 
 and visual appeal. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
