-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Yu-Gi-Oh! Nightmare Troubadour
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/yugiohnightmaretroubadour/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Touch screen support lends a distinct tactile feel.
 New tutorials lessen learning curve for beginners.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Actual cards look better than their 3D counterparts.
 Generally bland presentation.
 Deck-editing menus a bit too dense.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 22, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 7.4, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 869 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Card Battle
Date: Aug 30, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Nightmare Troubadour is marginally more successful than many of its predecessors, thanks to an engaging 
 tutorial system and the tactile advantage inherent to the Nintendo DS hardware. 

  Similar to the majority of the Yu-Gi-Oh! games that Konami has published over the past five years 
 or so, Nightmare Troubadour for the Nintendo DS aims to accomplish the familiar goal of re-creating 
 the real-world Yu-Gi-Oh! collectible card game. Nightmare Troubadour is marginally more successful 
 than many of its predecessors to this end, thanks to an engaging tutorial system and the tactile 
 advantage inherent to the Nintendo DS hardware.  

          You'll throw down against Yugi, Joey, and other recognizable duelists in Nightmare Troubadour. 
     

  Nightmare Troubadour doesn't waste a lot of time with setup, and within minutes of booting up the 
 game you'll find yourself in the role of a young novice duelist prowling the town in search of 
 other duelists to battle. There's competition all over the place, but you'll have to use your "duelist 
 radar" to ferret them out, which requires you to drag a cursor around a city map with your stylus 
 until the cursor starts "beeping" red. This would have a more immersive effect if the choice of 
 your prospective opponents wasn't limited by your current experience level.  

  Once you've found a match, the game eases quickly into familiar Yu-Gi-Oh! territory. A quick ro-sham-bo 
 game is played to determine who will take the first turn, and then you're brought to a standard 
 Yu-Gi-Oh! card table. From here, the game is fundamentally no different from any of the other Yu-Gi-Oh! 
 card games -- each player, armed with a deck of monster, trap, and spell cards, tries to whittle 
 their opponent's hit points down to zero. Mechanically, though, the game feels less abstract than 
 it has in its prior console incarnations, due largely to this version's touch screen support. There's 
 just something about using the stylus to physically tap the cards to activate them that makes the 
 card game feel less simulated.  

  In the past, if you didn't know how to play the game, you either figured it out through trial and 
 error, or, more likely, you simply didn't play at all. Nightmare Troubadour makes things much more 
 inviting for the uninitiated with a small library of extremely helpful tutorials, which can be 
 accessed at any time when you're not in an actual duel. These written tutorials cover everything 
 from basic rules and terminology to more advanced strategies. Though the tutorials can be a little 
 dense at times, they also can be incredibly helpful for first-timers. In addition to these non-interactive 
 tutorials, there is a series of "puzzle" matches, where you're presented with a contrived scenario 
 in which you'll have to use a specific strategy to complete successfully. Whether you're a beginner 
 or not, these puzzle matches are a good way to hone your skills.  

  If playing against an artificial intelligent opponent isn't your thing, you can also go head-to-head 
 with another player wirelessly, assuming the other player has his or her own copy of Nightmare 
 Troubadour. The wireless two-player support is pretty standard, letting you stage matches and trade 
 cards with other players.  

  At the end of both puzzle matches and regular duels, you're rewarded with points that can be spent 
 on booster packs at the local card shop. You're immediately shown what cards you received in your 
 booster pack upon purchase, but to actually use these new cards you'll have to go into the deck-editing 
 system and add them to your live deck. The deck- editing system isn't as transparent as the actual 
 card game, and there are a lot of options for how cards are displayed and sorted. It can take a 
 while to figure out how to move cards between your live deck and your chest of reserve cards, let 
 alone to make out what, exactly, it is that you're looking at.  

          Touching the cards with your stylus helps make the game feel a bit more real.     

 
  The game's look, in general, isn't particularly striking, and it usually opts for functionality 
 over visual panache. When you're in the overview of the city map, the lower screen looks like a 
 typical municipal map, while the upper screen displays a simple painting that gives you a general 
 feel for the neighborhood you're looking at. You'll see a decent-looking drawing of your opponent 
 before you go into a match, but for the rest of the time you're just looking at a card table. The 
 biggest effort to add some sparkle to the visuals comes in prerendered 3D versions of the card 
 monsters, which appear in the upper screen. Frankly, these models don't look nearly as good as 
 the card art that they're based on, and it doesn't help that their animations are limited to some 
 choppy wiggling. The sound is equally pedestrian, cannibalizing nearly all of its menu sounds and 
 innocuous background music from whatever centralized sound library Konami uses for all of its Yu-Gi-Oh! 
 games.  

  In addition to Nightmare Troubadour's sensible use of the touch screen on the DS and its helpful 
 tutorials, the biggest factor working in its favor is that Konami hasn't already churned out a 
 half-dozen other Yu-Gi-Oh! games for the Nintendo DSyet. But, even if Nightmare Troubadour weren't 
 the only game in town, it would still be an acceptable choice for those just looking for some decent 
 card battles for their DS.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (51 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cherry-Blossoms
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 9, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Yu-Gi-Oh Nightmare Troubadour is a card battling game for the DS. Most people interested in the 
 game have watched the cartoon and played the card game that it's based on, so the premise will 
 be immediately familiar. Players new to the game can listen to a small tutorial at the beginning. 
 The graphics are a notch above previous Yu-Gi-Oh titles. The characters portraits look wonderful -- They're 
 highly detailed. The 3D Monster sprites look pretty good too. Sadly, the monsters only sway, and 
 aren't seen attacking. To me, this is only a minor fault, but other players may be disappointed. 
 The screen shows the duel in two ways, the bottom screen has the touch commands and a picture of 
 what's happening on the game mat. The game could be played only with the bottom screen if you wanted. 
 The music didn't fare as well, though. The battle music can be kinda catchy, but nothing you'd 
 really remember. Then a lot of it is under average, mostly in events and in your room. Then there 
 are a few obvious translation issues as well. At the end of every day, your character will say 
 Let's already return . It's nothing that changes game play, and most of it is fine, but it's really 
 annoying. The gameplay gets the job done. In battle touch controls are well done and work well. 
 However, to find opponents you have to find a random opponent using a map of the city. It seems 
 unnecessary -- I'd really rather just pick who I want to play with. To make matters worse, some 
 players only show up at specific times of the day. Having to get through Rex Raptor and Espa Roba 
 to get to dueling Joey, Yugi, or Kaiba is a major Drag. The game features multi-card DS Wireless, 
 so you can duel friends who have the game. The games lacks wifi, of course. My biggest complaint 
 about the game is the selection of cards. It features over a thousand cards, but this just isn't 
 enough. The chances of every card in your deck being in the game are minimal. The reason I bought 
 it was to be able to test my deck against the computer. Well, that didn't work out. So to me it 
 was a disappointment. However, for duelists looking to test their skills, many challenging puzzles 
 were included. In the end, Yu-Gi-Oh! Nightmare Troubadour is a serviceable translation of the popular 
 trading card game on the Nintendo DS. It could have been better, but it might be worth it to you 
 at it's discounted price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dillgamr
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 15, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Nighmare Troubador (NT) is a Yu Gi Oh game thats puts you i na duelists shoes as you compete in 
 Battle city tournament . You duel all the original yu gi oh duelists like joey, kaiba, yu gi, wevil 
 etc... The graphics are an embarassment. Some monsters are outright unbielvably amazing and featured 
 but others are blurry. Konami could've took the time on all the monsters not just some and this 
 games graphics mioght be better.
  Not a bad story line as you battle your way to the top.
  This game is a must have for any yu gi oh fan but if youwant better and your a fan of Gx also get 
 Spirit caller instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simian92
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  I rate games by their individual things and explain them individually.
  
  Gameplay - 9 - if you are looking for practice before you challenge another tournament, or just 
 want to play a Yu-Gi-Oh! game for whatever reason, NMT is a great place to look. it is a solid, 
 polished dueling game with the normal rules intact. the only downside is the AI, in some cases 
 the AI doesn't think to well and will often walk right into traps.
  
  graphics - 7 - you can actually see the monsters for once, and they look quite blocky and pixelated. 
 the characters are straight out of the TV show, and they look no different.
  
  sound - 5 - the usual random faux-hard rock music you find on the Gameboy games that just doesn't 
 work. the sound affects are also pretty lame and involve basic animal sounds
  
  value and reviewers tilt - never make sense to me, so i just change them to equalize my score 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze6595
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 10, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  when i first got it, it was fun for a while but then it gets a little boring but, u have 2 play 
 more of it so it wont be so boring. the sound, graphics, and the quality are good 2. plus it is 
 more fun usin a styles than buttons cause it feels right how u use the game. i still haven't beet 
 it yet but i'm close 2. if u dont like, hey i'm ok or if u think yu-gi-oh is gay then thats what 
 u think. i think the show is stupid because the first time i saw the show i thought it wasn't as 
 exciting as playing the games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emblazing_Sand5
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 3, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  A very good game. If your a fan of the Yu-Gi-Oh! Trading Card game then you will definatley love 
 this. Theres so many oppenents to face that your never going to get board. Tons of cards to customize 
 your deck its awsome. It does take time to get used to but it is well worth it. You will really 
 enjoy this game i know i did. If you got doubles of cards then you can easily trade with friends. 
 This is probably the last game in the Yu-Gi-Oh! series so i would buy it if i were you. Yu-Gi-Oh! 
 fans will not enjoy this only yugioh fans will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STEALTH5000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I'm going to write this review because I used to be a great fan of Yu-Gi-Oh!, but not anymore, 
 but I still think that Yu-Gi-Oh! it's cool, so why not?
  
  The gameplay is the best thing about the game. Unlike previous GBA games, here you can touch everything 
 on the Touch Screen when it's your turn and if you're on a card it'll give you options as to what 
 to do with it. The opponents vary from strenght as well. Level 1 are very weak, but Level 5 are 
 the strongest and the most difficult ones to defeat. The story is, as usual evolving Yugi, Yami 
 Yugi, Kaiba, Joey, Merik, the others, and you. The setting is the Battlecity, and you'll have to 
 battle your way around. The DS allows you to do a whole lot of new things, like interact tieh people 
 objects, and, of course, the cards. The tutorial of the game helps anyone that has no idea what 
 yugioh is all about, and it also contains a lot of challenges for experts on the game. The storyline 
 unfolds pretty good, but the end it's kinda strange, adn you might not even realize that that was 
 the end of it. There's also a hidden secret that you can unlock when you reach a certain level. 
 It'll let you play the soundtrack within the game.
  
  All in all, Yu-Gi-Oh! makes a good impression with its innovative gameplay, but the story is always 
 the same, and there's never nothing new about it. If you like Yu-Gi-Oh!, or are interested in a 
 card-battle game, then look nowhere else, but at yugioh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smasterwoo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 7, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Good evening everybody this is DJ Woo coming from the Ivy Tech Help Desk to tell you about a new 
 game called Yu-GI-OH! Nightmare Troubadour. The game is set in the classic Yu-Gi-Oh! world of Nowhere 
 and you'll find yourseld dueling against the same characters from the cartoon. The Storyline is 
 simple in that you duel people for Kiaba points then you spend those points on card packs and then 
 you modify your deck. Along the way tournaments will pop up along with the night time scares from 
 the Rare Hunters, dun tun duuuun. We'll contiune this review after a few words from our local sponsers.
 
  
  Tired of having no time for a personal life. Does it seem like all you do is work, come home, watch 
 the kids, go to bed and then do it all again the next day. Well we have a solution for you.
  Hop Sings Nanny service is here to help you. Now you can own your very own Chinaman who cooks, 
 cleans, watches the childern and even seems to be able to get rid of any stray cats or dogs in 
 your niebourhood. So call now at 555-5555.
  
  We're back now here at WFIX and we're now taking callers with there thoughts on this game. Caller 
 number one your on...
  Well DJ Woo I love this game. It's simple and I can trade cards and duel my friends through WIFI 
 on my DS and the best part is I don't have to spend all that money on cards.
  Well folks there you have it. If you enjoy the card game then you'll enjoy this game. If you're 
 like me and have never played the card game but enjoy games that involve strategy, the deck building, 
 this game could be fun for you. BOTTOM LINE: Don't pay anymore that $19.99 for this game. It's 
 good but not that good.
  Catch Phrase: Holla at your boy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verdugoRE4
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  What I said last time was a bit too much bash, and not enough real rating, so I played it again 
 for the 1st time in a long time, and the game is not to bad. The multiplayer is what made me play 
 it again, and trading cards, and dueling wireless is fun. It is great when it comes to graphics, 
 and the gameplay is stellar. It all comes down to the fact that for YU-GI-OH! fans this is a must 
 buy, but the game won't have you playing it forever. So ignore my last review for anyone who read 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kryten105
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  I can comfortably say that without doubt this is the best Yu-Gi-Oh game to date. It has all the 
 cards (up to the date of release) and all the rules. The tutorial mode is excellent for teaching 
 new players how to play the games and the challenges test even the best of real-world players.
 
  
  The main criticism I would have (and it's a criticism that can be said about every single Yu-Gi-Oh 
 game ever) is that the 3D monsters and their respective battle sequences are still pretty appalling 
 looking, and now that they've got the gameplay elements perfected they really need to start working 
 on those monsters... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mendy29
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 19, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  everytime i play a handheld yugioh game the gameplay is great but the graphics are terrible this 
 game has the best graphics any yugioh handheld has ever had. if u r a fan of the yugioh game and 
 own a ninrendi ds this is a must have game the only thing this game lacks is the multiplayer option 
 which couldhave benn done but probably would take most of the buissnes from yugioh online. this 
 game rocks thus game rocks this game ricks this game rocks this game rocks this game rocks this 
 game rocks rhis this rhis this game game game game game game game game game rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alig1441
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  alright this game is good it gets better and better the storyline gets exsiting konami did well 
 makeing it well the music is quite bad i don't like it much the gameplay fine its quite hard to 
 get good cards but when you get the password machine you can get anycard you want i got high on 
 the game but i starts to get tireing dueling. its still quite hard to get a good deck coz you have 
 to pay a lot of money to get 1 card you want but you have to read the code of itmy deck is alright 
 the game alright its injoying you have a deck name. when you get into torments the game starts 
 to get harder its keeps geting harder and harder. this game alright for a yuigoh its better then 
 moster this games just fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gammagoat
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Yu-Gi-Oh was a hit on the GBA. However, on the GBA, the graphics capabilities made it impossible 
 to be great. On the DS, there are 3-D monsters, great touch screen features, and not just "Choose 
 which duelist to duel." gameplay. There's a story. You have to look for duelists.
  
  Pros:
  - Has some of the latest cards.
  - Has puzzles to do to get extra cash, with different 
 diffculty levels (Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced) .
  -Explains effects of specific cards, and ways they work that you would never expect.
  - Uses 
 Egyptian Gods
  - Get bonuses by doing certain actions in the duel (ex. Exodia finish)
  - Build deck recipes and have different ones for every occasion, plus you can send them to a friend
 
  - Mulitplayer (Single Duel, Match Duel, Send Recipe, Card Trade)
  - Has an actual story mode.
  - You can trade cards with duelists in the game.
  
  Cons:
 
  - Doesn't automatically save like some of the others
  - Shadow duels, while you get extra cash, if you lose, you start back from when you last saved.
 
  - Can only have one god card in your possession at a time
  - Certain cards, though obtainable in the game, are forbidden in your deck until you get to a certain 
 point in the game.
  - Can only have 1 forbidden card in your deck at a time.
  
  Overall, Yu-Gi-Oh fans should get this game. It is a solid, well laid out crd game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmdr_Jay
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  I thoroughly enjoy this game. The AI is a challenge and, to a point, ramps up difficulty with the 
 player. I did find that the individual AI players never varied their decks up to a point, where 
 I continuously tried out various decks. The ability to play against a human player wirelessly is 
 excellent. I play casually, so the ban listed cards annoy me a bit, but the ability to choose one 
 ban listed card to add to your deck helps. The ability to duel groups of enemies after the main 
 plot is finished helps get points to get more cards. I do wish more current cards were available 
 but with the success of this version, I'm sure more are to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 3, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  
  I use to laugh at the Idea of a card battle. I thought how funny. I had made fun of my younger 
 cousin for playing the real thing. How could people get so involved in a tedious battle of math. 
 Well when this game came out and I had a DS I thought what could it hurt. Guess what I was so wrong 
 that if I could Id punch myself and say I told you so.
  
  First off in order to be good at this game youve got to be dedicated. Im not just saying that. 
 Its kinda like playing hihg class chess, and you do develop favorite cards after a while. The effects, 
 monster classes, fusions, everthing about the game of Yui gi oh is here and animated well. The 
 only draw back is that the attacks could have been animated like in the show. Instead when an attack 
 is initiated all you see is a slash. 
  
  First off for the uninitiated Yui gi oh is a card battle game in which you and an opponent "duel" 
 in a game of wits, memory, skill, luck, and knowlegde of the cards. Sounds dramatic .. I know but 
 it is. At every turn youlll find a card with mew abilities that spice up the game. The names of 
 the cards the effects all of it sucks you in. 
  
  How this game plays on the DS? Hmmm seems like the two were made for each other like an oreo or 
 peanut butter cup they mess together so finely.
  The touch screen is your best but not only option. You collect your cards from the card shop. The 
 game is taught to you here wether you know how to play or not. You assemble your deck (cards 40 
 to 80) that you choose. Choose carefully as the effects, amount, type, and other factors all come 
 into play when "dueling". From here you use a little map and traverse it trying to build a rep 
 for yourdelf by challenging others. Should you get good enough youll face off with members from 
 the TV series in a bowl ladder type chamionship. Trust me when I say these battles get intense, 
 complcated, and fierce. You have to play to see it. This game makes you care about whats going 
 on I liken it to Spades meets chess only more complex than both because there are so many cards 
 to collect and use. I have been playing for months now and still havent got all of them. My guess 
 youll have to tradr with human players to get all of them. 
  
  Yui gi oh is represented well on the DS and like I said before seems almost made for it the way 
 it plays and uses the dual screens and touch pad ability. This is a great game despite what anyone 
 says and having played other versions after this one it is the best of its kind if you ask me. 
 Pick it up is you have a DS Its got me hooked and I have games like Mario kart DS and New super 
 mario bros so its no easy feet to have someone hooked over these games. Thanks for reading and 
 PEACE OUT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackiebraidy
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  this game is a game that any one who likes yu gi oh will think this game is a master piece and 
 probuly the people who has this they will think this is the best game theyve played in there life 
 i think this game was one of the funnest games in the united states of america i think well all 
 games for ds are fun but this one is probuly the funnest out of all the ds games i think this game 
 had really good gameplay i want to show all of my freinds how good this game is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 5, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  Nightmare Troubour would have been a great game if i hav'nt been on the other games, but since 
 i have its starting to get boring
  
  GOOD-New 3D Look, 1'000+ cards to collect, tons of duelists.
  
  BAD- Prepetative, boring, new 
 3D look aint to good
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  If your firmiliar with the gaming formular of the duel, then this game will be a blast, but if 
 your not you could look at the tutorials, the game is totaly like the propper card game with propper 
 tournament/duling rules.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  You might think the all new 3D look might be awesome, but they aint, they maybe be smooth but they 
 look flat and blurry, and the you cant see the pictures on the cards.
  
  SOUND:
  Sound?, meh, i would'nt say they were bad, but i would'nt get into the background music, and the 
 battle crys aint good
  
  WHY SHOULD I BUY IT?- Cos if you like TCG this is the game for you, but i would'nt realy recomend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dat1Joker
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 23, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  This game, being the only game currently in this franchise on the DS, is passable if you are a 
 Yu-Gi-Oh! fan. The cards for the most part all make their appearance and are easy to find. In this 
 game, that proved as a down fall. Every duelist, as the game progressed had just about the same 
 deck. Filled with the same "ultra rare" traps, monsters, and spell cards. There were no new duelist 
 introduced, and the AI was not too hard to out smart. For instance they would sacrifice a card 
 to special summon a monster that didnt exist in his/her deck. The text of the game was unwanted 
 and errored. The characters themselves were flawed. They did not play like in the show. Kaiba never 
 used Blue-Eyes Ultimate Dragon in his deck, Joey never used Black Eyes, and about 3 duelist had 
 Exodia. It is a time passer, and the in duel time is fun. I suggest buying this only if you are 
 looking for a DS Yu-Gi-Oh! title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 12, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  I have to preface this review with the following disclaimer:
  I have never watched the cartoon from which all this was spawned. I have never collected the cards. 
 I have no interest in ever doing so. As such, I can rate this game purely on its game merits, rather 
 than as some supplicating fanboy who reflexively loves any paraphenalia with Mai Valentine's visage 
 plastered on it. Right. On with the review.
  Yu Gi come, and Yu Gi (g) Oh. The card game that nobody every really played in real life spawned 
 what can only be called a sprawling franchise of video games spanning nearly every platform over 
 the years. People who have never played it, or never took the time to figure out how to play it, 
 see the spikey yellow hair and overly round eyes and think "only freaks must like this stuff".
 
  For those of us who did spend the hours learning the intricate rules and features inherent in 
 the game, however, Yu Gi Oh stands for games that have true depth. Chess with cards. A thinking 
 person's game.
  In other words, this franchise has stood its ground with respect to the ever-increasing tide of 
 easy-to-play mindless pap gracing most platforms these days. It is as though developers have figured 
 we're all too lazy or stupid to figure out a game with any depth, so they've stopped making them. 
 Luckily, Konami hasn't completely caved to this trend, and thus we have Nightmare Troubadour.
 
  If you have ever played a Yu Gi Oh video game, you will feel at home here. Standard rules, standard 
 cards (with many that were missing from previous incarnations of the game) , typical battle system. 
 Read GS's review for a description of the game itself. I plan on focussing on the good and the 
 bad.
  First off, the touch-screen. FINALLY, we have a game that implements the touch screen properly. 
 A prime example of this: You can drag and drop cards from your trunk to your deck and vice-versa. 
 I don't know what the GS reviewers are talking about, I thought the deck management system was 
 incredibly easy and intuitive. You don't want a card in your deck? You drag it into the trunk. 
 Easy peasy.
  In battles, the touch screen works equally well, offering a seamless interaction with the cards. 
 Here, you double-click on a card to attack with it, touch cards to switch between attack and defend 
 stance, etc.
  The main table is depicted on the touch screen, leaving the other screen to show the card images 
 come to life, standing up in 3d from where they are on the table, sort of like fancy chess pieces 
 (there's that chess reference again) . Some of them are pretty boxy and pixelated, but it is a nice 
 touch, albeit a time-waster as you watch attack after attack.
  The sound is pleasant, although the music can get repetitive after a few hours. One sound worth 
 the price of admission is the 'battle' step sound... some eerie metallic echoing wail that is still 
 cool after the thousandth time of hearing it.
  The "wandering an avatar through town to find duels" has been replaced with a quicker method of 
 using the stylus to move a homing target around a map until it turns... pink.... at which time you 
 can find a duel. I sort of miss the old way of doing things, but that's just the explorer RPG fan 
 in me talking. I guess Konami didn't want to take away from the main reason people buy these games: 
 to duel. As such, some will like this now-faster way of getting to duels, but others (like me) 
 will feel a bit disconnected from the world in which you are apparently living.
  
  The duels themselves range from simple to quite challenging, and even an experienced dueler can 
 find themselves outmatched if they haven't sufficiently streamlined their deck. Any fan of these 
 games expects this sort of thing, however, so no surprises here.
  
  The game offers many many hours of dueling, no two of which are alike; the same opponent who you 
 trounced a minute ago can come back and smoke you in five moves. The act of buying packs and honing 
 your deck into a lean mean fighting machine can absorb hours of your time, especially if, like 
 me, you experiment with different card sets and strategies.
  
  It is here, I suppose, that this game separates the men from the boys (or the women from the girls) : 
 this game has a significant learning curve, as well as more depth than your average Mario and Luigi 
 joint. Most game players will be put off by the amount of work they need to do in order to just 
 figure out how to play, and how to manage the deck. What gamers forget, however, is the first rule 
 of gaming: the complex games are the toughest to learn, but offer the most depth and fun if you 
 take the time with them.
  
  Of course, this franchise has a somewhat negative reputation among gamers who have never tried 
 it, and nothing I say will change someone's bigoted viewpoint. 
  
  Oh well, it's their loss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthewmason18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Having bought the game, my first thaughts were that this is just another yu gi oh game to match 
 the rest...... this is not so.
  
  first off, the touch screen technology realy lets you feel immersed in the yu gi oh universe. By 
 dragging and dropping cards into your main deck and trunk makes creating your own deck easy and 
 fun unlike the previous versions where it got tedious selecting the cards before. The first few 
 duels you have are relitively easy to get you started off but as you progress, you will find the 
 opponents harder to deal with. 
  
  When you start off on this game the starter deck which is given to you is quite impressive unlike 
 the previous versions where you had to lose a fair few games to aquire the cards needed for beating 
 your opponents to a pulp. The only 2 flaws I can pick with this game are that the 3d rendering 
 of the Monsters aren't particularly impressive in comparrison to most game graphics I have seen 
 on the DS but this doesn't take away from the illusion of a real playing field at all, in my opinion 
 they should have done this 3d playing field idea from day 1 regardless of how poor the graphics 
 were on previous platforms. The second fault is on the othey yu gi oh games, you could see your 
 hand very clearly but on this you realy have to examine each card to bring up the detailed description.... its 
 a little annoying but i can't realy expect the creators to fit loads on such a limited screen space. 
 
  
  After the nit picking I have just done I will get to the good points :) . Aquiring new cards in 
 this game is a joy, Visit the game shop in the game and simply browse through the booster packs. 
 To buy the packs however, you must earn KC points by dueling with other opponents (which i thaught 
 was a nice touch) which is used as currency in the game. Also, you are given a duelist level which 
 advances with experience points aquired from each duel you have. Pretty much all the cards are 
 up to date and the ability to use the "God Cards" and "Exodia" make this the most complete Yu-Gi-OH! 
 game yet!
  
  If your not wise on all the Yu-Gi-Oh! rules, dont worry. Solomon (yugi's grandpa) will teach you 
 the basics and from there you will easily pick it up. If you have always been interested in the 
 card game I suggest you buy this title..... I mean...... you cant realy have a better teacher can 
 ya? 
  
  Go out and buy this..... you won't regret it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendokid891
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  This game is aweasome. I gave up playing Yu-Gi-Oh in like 5 th grade, (You know trying to be cool) 
 But this game looked to aweasome to not get. I finally purchased the game and it was so cool. I 
 remember when i was younger that i wished the cards were real. (I mean come on a real monster as 
 like a pet. That would be Sick) Anyway I would recommend this game to anyone. Here's my review:
 
  
  GAMEPLAY- Thr gameplay is pretty good. It can get boring sometimes, but you always want to keep 
 going. Overall i give gameplay a 8 out of ten!
  
  8 out of 10
  
  GRAPHICS- The graphics are ok. Good enough to see the game. It would be nice for a little bit better 
 graphics but its still aweasome.
  
  8 out of 10
  
  SOUND- The music is really cool. It can get you really pumped up and excited. I wish they had a 
 soundtrack to the game. The music is basicly creepy halloweenish music, but i love it.
  9 out of 10
  
  LEARNING CURVE- This depends. So im going to say if you' ve never playerd then 
 this game can take a while to learn. Like for basic play you can probly get it all in 2 hours. 
 If you want to be amd advanced duelest it will take a couple of days to get really good.
  
  2 to 4 hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hannahsbf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 26, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Well the 3-D graphics were just hardcore! I enjoyed playing the game it's now my most played ds 
 game so I liked the graphics it was awesome becuase 3-D graphics are hardcore for Yu-Gi-Oh!! Seriously 
 It was awesome because I got all 3 god cards and all those awesome sweet cards I beat the game 
 I still continue to play the game though because it was fun and I quite enjoyed it. All though 
 the gameplay was a little rusty the sound was aweome! Value was ok I didn't like the gameplay much 
 because you just moved the curser around to find duelists and shops, tornaments just freakin bad 
 gameplay but sound grapahics AMAZING! was cool so if you like Yu-Gi-Oh games this ones for you 
 so buy this game it's awesome FREAKIN AWESOME! so ok just buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_13est_
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I really pondered on the fact of buying this game or not. Considering the rest of the Yu-Gi-Oh 
 games were utter crap.
  The annoying 700atk monsters and boring same old- same old storylines. The crap annoyance of being 
 thrashed by Joey Wheeler and thrashING Yugi and Kaiba.
  But this game obviously knew it's faults, and certainly sorted them out.
  
  Firstly you can 
 personlise yourself, by naming the cities you explore and the deck that you use. Unlike other games, 
 where you earn a pack for every duel you win, they fool you into dueling more by making you earn 
 KC points. Which quite obviously stand for "kaiba-corp".
  The packs vary in rareness, starting off with some pretty crappy ones, and dueling your way to 
 get better packs with more 'intermediate cards'.
  The way you evolve as such is by earning exp points and gaining your level, a little like the pokemon 
 idea.
  So winning duels and becoming a more experienced greater duelist becomes a lot more noticable and 
 much more fun.
  
  The opponents actually take cards and decks from the television series, which is easier as you 
 can expect what cards are played. 38 opponents is fantastic, if you want to have an easy duel, 
 you just as always thrash pooey Tea Gardner ( If you can find her that is) or if you want a mediocre, 
 why not challenge Mako Tsunami with his annoying Tornado Wall, or maybe you want a REAL challenge, 
 by taking on Yami Marrik.
  
  But the big daddies HAVE to go to the BIg 5, Noah and Gozaburo. Whom you after face all in a row 
 without a singular save.
  Hard you ask, LMAO, you'll have a bold patch in the middle of your head with the amount of hair 
 you'll pull out.
  But it's worth it in the end :P !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skywarp2049
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 13, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Although typically not a game that will win any awards like God of War, Advance Wars, or any other 
 high end game, if you are looking for a game with a little pinnoche and some thorough thinking 
 then Nightmare Troubadour is worth the money. Nightmare Troubadour is a much better improvement 
 over some of the previous GBA titles. Although 7 trials is a very top tier Yu-gi-oh! game in my 
 opinion. There are plenty of strategies that previous games did not have available such as the 
 use of spell counters, a rather crucial element to any Dark Magician deck by today's standards. 
 Overall game play was fulfilling there was plenty of challenges starting at the beginning of the 
 cartoon series with Kaiba ending up with the Egyptian God cards. The number of cards available 
 are insane, although few than some previous games I believe, plenty of old faces with alot of new 
 comers around to supplement previous strategies. If you like the card game, and are looking for 
 an easy time killer, and have a DS Yu-Gi-Oh! Nightmare Troubadour is worth the time and money invested. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ-Sephiroth
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very good Yu-Gi-Oh game. The game takes good advantage of the DS duel screen. you 
 move around to find an opponent and in a duel you point at the card you wanna use. The graphics 
 are nice for a handheld. The monsters are 3D on the top screen so thats cool. the game has card 
 from legend of blue eyes all the way to some of the newer sets. This game is a great DS game and 
 a good yu-gi-oh game. The games sound is averages but not that great. The replay value is awsome. 
 there are so many cards to get in this game. This game should be tried out by DS owners and yu-gi-oh 
 fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomsconspiracie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  If you like yugioh then get out there and buy it but if not then dont touch it with a stick you 
 will regret it. So if you dont like yugioh then stop reading now it will be a waste of your life.
 
  
  The touch screen makes the game a lot more comfartable to play you dont have to constantly press 
 the directional button and stuff. 
  The games offers a good variety of cards and it will last for ages if you are in to the game a 
 bit like pokemon was. 
  
  The score i give is based on someone who likes yugioh so dont jump to conclusions.
  
  One major 
 problem with the game is that the monster details are not as great as they could be ifthey were 
 better then a lot more people would buy it. 
  
  The next game should take on more of a pokemon rpg perspective then go form there.
  Note: Effort 
 is required to learn the complx rules 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willow1150
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I have played every Yu-Gi-Oh! game and none comes even close to as good as this one. I can't put 
 the game down. The monsters come to life, a huge variety of charecters, you can make your own charecter, 
 you can duel anyone from the show, you can walk around yor home town, you can go on a train to 
 your favourite town, the monsters are animated, it goes from day to night, you can go to sleep 
 in your own cool room whenever you want, you can go on your computer in your room whenever you 
 want, you can obtain money by winning duels, duel strategicly to get more money, buy a wide selection 
 of packs with new ones that come out every time you level up or beat a tournament, level up after 
 you duel alot, enter tournaments to become the king of games, undergoe almost all the events from 
 the TV show, go into Nowas virtual world, learn everything there is to know about dueling, play 
 stategic dueling puzzles to test your knowledge, collect over 1000 cards even the knewest ones, 
 you can get a checklist of the packs you got so you can collect them all, find out the percent 
 of cards you own from certain packs, you can easily tell which cards are holos and secret rares 
 etc, you can use a password machine so you can listen to music, see the credits, and get new cards 
 that you have in real life, you can play a cool game while the credits role, you can use the stylus 
 for easy dueling action, the people on the game talk, you see your opponent when you duel and his 
 facial expressions when hes losing and winning, when the cards destroyed it does a cool explosion, 
 you can tell what the card is simply by looking at it unlike the other games where you had to click 
 on it to see the picture, there are cards in the game that were only relseased in Japan, you can 
 get mail from Kaiba corp and duelists, you can register duelists so you can duel them whenever, 
 it will show you how many wins, loses, and ties you have per person, you can get stopped by shadow 
 duelists, you can play in shadow games, if you beat the game you can use 1 forbidden card in your 
 deck, it follows all the official rules of Yu-Gi-Oh!, you can get Egyptian God cards and summon 
 them to the field with cool effects, they have effects that are supposed to be the true effects 
 of the god cards, you can wirelesly duel and trade with others, if you have other Yu-Gi-Oh! games 
 inside your Ds it will give you some surprise mystery cards, it will tell you how good you are 
 doin at dueling certain people, if you duel people enough they will give you there deck, you can 
 make up to 15 of your own decks, terrific graphics, you can have fun consequtive matches at the 
 end, and much MUCH MORE!!!
  If you like dueling this is the perfect game for you. Its one of my favourite games and it never 
 gets boring. Its just soo cool. It comes with 3 of the best Magician cards. You can make your own 
 destiny! You just have to get it , it has so many great features!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RuggerBushy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  There are basically three types of Yu-Gi-Oh video games. There are those that work (the World Championship 
 line for GBA) , those that don't quite work (games such as The Sacred Cards) , and those that just 
 plain bite (Destiny Board Traveler) . Even the first group has had one fundamental flaw. How are 
 you supposed to keep all the cards and statistics on ONE TINY SCREEN? The spring release of 7 Trials 
 to Glory tried to alleviate this problem by providing an isometric view of the field, but it was 
 still a whole butt-load of stats to keep on one screen.
  
  How to solve this problem? Two letters: D S. The dual-screen format of Nintendo's second handheld 
 coupled with the touch-screen interface make it an ideal system for any video game adaptation of 
 a trading card game. Obviously, Konami knew this from the get-go, as Nightmare Troubadour, the 
 franchise's DS debut, was first announced not long after the system's debut. Now it's here, and 
 duelists everywhere can harness the heart of the cards like never before.
  
  Nightmare Troubadour is perhaps the most complete Yu-Gi-Oh game ever, combining the fundamentals 
 of the WCT line with a story loosely based on the Duelist Kingdom and Battle City sagas. You play 
 as a duelist working your way to the top. Along the way, you earn KC Points to buy cards, make 
 friends (and foes) with familiar characters from the anime, and battle the forces of the Shadow 
 Games. The game contains the full expert rules, more than 25 different opponents, more than 1000 
 cards, a tutorial for rookies, puzzles to test your skill, and a time mechanic that triggers different 
 events depending on the time of day the game is in. However, the key to this game is its use of 
 the features of the DS. You summon your monsters and activate your spells on the bottom screen 
 using the stylus, while the creatures emerge in 3D on the top screen to do the duel. The extent 
 of the 3D, however, is kept to a minimum; you don't even see the monsters attack.
  
  Possibly the only other flaw in this game is finding the duelists on the map. You use the Duelist 
 Radar to search the map, and the duelists don't appear until your right on top of their location. 
 The level of interactivity with the duelists is staggering, however. As you duel with certain characters, 
 you can actually form a friendship of sorts; when it reaches a certain level, you can register 
 them to duel anytime, as well as trade with them and even obtain their deck formulas! Of course, 
 there's nothing like doing the duel with a human opponent, and NT allows you to duel with another 
 player wirelessly. You don't need cables when dueling with cards, so why use it with a game system?
 
  
  But one thing that sets this game apart? Three words: Egyptian God Cards. NT marks the first time 
 in an expert rules game that you can actually use the three most powerful monsters ever created. 
 Of course, if you're good enough, you might not even need them.
  
  All these things come together to form the complete package. DS owners who love Yu-Gi-Oh will absolutely 
 fall for this game. Expect the DS to host future WCT titles if NT proves successful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkKefka
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 14, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  
  How to make TCGs videogames easier on videogames consoles? Easy, use two separates screens. Thats 
 what Yu-Gi-Oh! Nightmare Troubadour does, it uses the top screen to display all the action and 
 the card itself, at the same time the lower screen displays the known game board in 2D and lets 
 you control everything with the stylus. The controls in the game are perfect and give the feeling 
 of touching and actually playing with the cards; all thanks to the NDS touch-screen.
  
  You play as a duelist in a city that you can name. After receiving a deck you are ready to duel. 
 And if you are new to the YGO universe you can use the learning system at the local game shop, 
 which is a welcome addition to the series that makes the game a little more welcoming. Your time 
 in the game will be divided in three: looking for opponents in the city map, dueling, and tuning 
 up your deck by buying or winning cards. The first one looking for opponents- consists in moving 
 around a circle in the map with the stylus or the digital pad as you move it the color of the circle 
 is going to change depending of how near you are to an opponent, after you find it you can duel 
 it. Dont worry tough after you duel someone a lot of times you can register them and then enter 
 a menu, choose them and move exactly where they are to duel with them. Constructing your deck has 
 never been easier. When you are in the deck construction option the upper screen will display a 
 close up of the selected card while the lower screen displays the cards in your deck or trunk. 
 You can move them from deck to trunk by just dragging them. Also you can use a recipe to save 
 your deck and use it later these recipes can be made by you or youll get them as you progress. 
 
  
  One thing that was or is very attractive of this game is that the monsters of the cards come to 
 life in 3D, or so it seems. Some monster cards have a good looking summoning (when you play a monster) 
 with a close up and really good 3D graphics and then they turn into some kind of 3D models, but 
 other simply come to life in some sprites and have few movement. Most of the monsters actually 
 look decent while others need a lot of work. The monsters have two different stances one in attack 
 mode and the other in defense, but not all of the models or sprites actually show the change and 
 they only have one. 
  
  The worst part of the game is the music. All of the music is almost the same as other games in 
 the series and boring. Don't get me wrong the sound effects are somewhat good and fun to hear.
 
  
  The game itself is good and really entertaining it just needed a little more effort and work. The 
 main story of the game is the same as it has been in the past games (duel city) , but with some 
 different dialog and other things. I hope that if there is another game like this for the DS, that 
 it has a Wi-Fi option to play with people around the world and that it has a better navigation 
 system. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mstrgmr
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best Yu-Gi-Oh games ever! It has many of the characters from the show, with 
 decks resembling their's too. This game has over 1000 cards, making it easy to create the exact 
 deck you want. You even get to name the cities. I love how the Egyption God Cards are in the game, 
 and you can use them all, not just Obelisk the Tormentor and Slifer the Sky Dragon. The 3D graphics 
 in this game and using the touch screen takes dueling to a whole new level. If you like Yu-Gi-Oh, 
 you will want to pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riviera4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  Yu-Gi-Oh! Nightmare troubadour is amazing.
  I have Reshef of Destruction and it was very nice- except for the training. Well, I liked Reshef 
 of Destruction so much that I thought I'd try Nighmare T out. I honestly didn't have very high 
 expectations for this game, but the addition of the special effects such as flame and energy blasts 
 etc... instead of the cheap little slash (found in Reshef of Destruction) was much enjoyed.
  The DS touch screen enabled a nice addition; people are now able to navigate the game map and select 
 the deulist by touching the screen with the "pen".
  The enhanced 3-D graphics brought the mosters to life, each with their own waiting pose. The 3-D 
 graphics are what brought the speial effects to life.
  Also with the nintendo DS, people are now allowed to duel and trade wirelessly without spending 
 $15 on a cheap wireless adapter. This is great because from past experience, the game link cable 
 was a big hastle.
  Bottom line: This is a great game for Yu-Gi-Oh! fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elwe_Arnutuile
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  If your a big fan of the Yu-Gi-Oh official card game, then your gonna love this one.
  Sure, the game-boy games were fun, but for the DS, it makes the game easier to handle, and the 
 matches a good challenge. The DS's top screen allows the monsters to actually be seen on the card 
 field. This game also gives you KC Points after every duel if you win, which allows you to buy 
 card packs, or even use the password machine. You will never see your character walk around in 
 the game, but you can unlock new things in the game, like the train, new shops, etc. And even make 
 friends with other duelists, allowing you to fight them whenever you want.
  This Yu-Gi-Oh game is obviously the best game they have made, and is only played on the DS, which 
 makes the game 10X more enjoyable, and much more easier to play. If your a Yu-Gi-Oh fan, you will 
 absolutely cherish this game, if you hate Yu-Gi-Oh, you will change your mind after playing this 
 one. Which makes this game "Best in series". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerPlayer914
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:48 pm PT
Review:  It has to be a daunting task to create a Yu-Gi-Oh game because they tend to be the same thing every 
 time. Draw phases, card collecting, ATK, spell speeds; none of this will likely ever change. A 
 couple of extra cards may pop up within a couple of months but the mechanics remain. What separates 
 a Stairway to the Destined from a 7 Trials to Glory is presentation. When youre serving meatloaf 
 every night of the week, the least you can do is put it on a pretty plate. Yu-Gi-Ohs journey to 
 the DS might just be the right way to serve this tough meal.
  
  Back to Square One
  
  After five years on the market, Yu-Gi-Oh has gone from kids card game to hit TV show to video 
 game. The portable handheld games play exactly like their cardboard counterparts. All you really 
 need to know for right now is that two players face off with a deck of cards. With monsters, spells, 
 and traps; each player will try to tear away at their opponents 8000 points of life. The first 
 player to hit zero or run out of cards loses. 
  
  Enemy Controller
  
  With the second screen acting as your hand and game board, Yu-Gi-Oh reaches a level closer to the 
 action found at your local comic book store. Youll shuffle through your hand at the flick of a 
 wrist and play spells with a gentle tap. After a couple of virtual hands, we found that the new 
 touch system helps a once rigid game flow a little better. 
  
  With use comes abuse. Someone thought that it might be fun to extend touching to hunting for the 
 perfect opponent. Through many subsequent battles, your opponent will trust you enough to let you 
 know where you can find him. Until then, its the blind leading the frustrated.
  
  Ordeal of a Traveler
  
  The game tries to convey a story through a level system. As you climb 
 up the levels, different events begin to open. Unless you know where to look for them, you wont 
 see a difference. Eager for your first tournament? Youll need to wait around for 10 levels or 
 so just to see that happen. Yu-Gi-Oh is a naturally slow game with all the cards you want coming 
 from later series or rarely showing up in packets. Dont turn to the password machine for help 
 this time. Nightmare Troubadour has turned this machine into a clunker.
  
  Grandpa helps out by challenging players with game puzzles. Each puzzle focuses on one of the finer 
 aspects of the game. By completing puzzles, you earn a little money to buy cards. Of course with 
 what Grandpa charges, this old man is laughing all the way to the bank.
  
  Envoy of the End
  
  Its a challenge to try to animate nearly 1000 Yu-Gi-Oh cards. While some 
 graphics really stand out, others look like the designers went home early -- leaving out textures 
 and other details. The graphics may only be a slight improvement over the last game, but we need 
 to expect more coming from the DS.
  
  Lay Down Your Cards
  
  Yu-Gi-Oh: Nightmare Troubadour has almost everything a young duelist could ever want in a game -- sets 
 extending to Flaming Eternity, God Cards, and the Shadow Games. Just getting there is half the 
 problem. Players on the fringe of the card game, however, will find more frustration than fun in 
 Nightmare Troubadour.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Since I got bored of Pokemon games, might as well try out something similar. Woohoo! Score! I never 
 tried Yu-Gi-Oh before but when I first tried it, it is interesting. The controls were hard to figure 
 out at first and you would have to be a veteran in order to master it first-hand. This is basically 
 a TCG that has been out and it looks even better on the DS. (Especially on the youch screen)
  
  The main objective is to use your best monsters in order to take down your oponents life points. 
 Magic and Trap cards are used to help you, but they just get plain annoying. Jinzo RAWKS! If you 
 want to play hand to hand with other monsters, no trap cards can interfere with his rampage. (Especially 
 Yugi with his annoying trap cards.
  
  Fun game! There is some good and bad:
  
  Good: Plenty of cards with decent abilities.
  Huge variety of characters. If only Tristen were 
 in this.
  Highly addictive and will want you to open the next pack.
  A story line makes this more interesting.
  Each character has a different skill level.
  
 
  Bad: Most characters cards are way too repetitive! I keep on seeing that F-ing whore D. D. Warrior 
 Lady in everyones deck. I can think of 5 people that use this: Yami, Odion, Mai, Rebecca, and even 
 Seto Kaiba. I only hate it for its annoying ability by sending my best monsters out of play. Other 
 cards include Kycoo the ghost destroyer, Spirit Reaper, and Sangan. I highly understand Sangan's 
 ability, but still it is annoying.
  *So much for Yami's "Believe in the heart of the cards" theory. He completely uses different cards 
 than what he has to duel with. His only original cards are Big Shield Gardna and Dark Magician. 
 Only the little Yugi has the right cards.*
  Its main flaw is repetitive use of cards.
  
  Conclusion: It is very challenging and I like it for that. If you can play this for a long time, 
 it is easy to memorize everyones deck due to unoriginality. Who cares about anyone elses strategy, 
 raw power always wins fights. I'm not a true Yugioh fan, but this a good substitute for any anime 
 franchise. I had some fun and if you bought this game to try something new, you'll be glad you 
 did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryodude
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 20, 2005 7:17 pm PT
Review:  The series of Yu-Gi-Oh games can be called little more than updates for each installment. Some 
 games try to put a fresh spin on the cards and new gameplay mechanics, but fail to impress. The 
 hand-held line sticks closely to what truely works and only hinders itself through the card library 
 in the game. 
  
  Gameplay is what it should be; you are playing the actual game with TCG rules and regulations. 
 The DS touch screen better immerses the player in the experience and it's completely optional. 
 The game can be played without the use of the stylus, but navigating certain screen options becomes 
 tricky without. It helps when navigating the in-duel options and certainly helps when moving cards 
 between decks and trunk (storage unit name) . You have a lot of space to create decks and save their 
 recipes. You'll even be able to earn certain Ai character recipes. The sorting ability is much 
 more vast and specific than earlier games, but still defaults to normal alphabetical sort when 
 you leave. Ai characters are straight from the show and have decks very similar to the shows theme. 
 As you progress through the "story" and level up (yes, you level up... again) , tougher opponents 
 appear and previous foes amp up their decks. This is very nice, since it can get stale dueling 
 the tremendously weak decks of early foes. You'll eventually see the strategy to decks and learn 
 how to counter them. You will encounter opponents that truly challenge your skill level. There 
 is no interactive tutorial, but a constant ruling list in the single card shop is available and 
 updates itself as you acquire new cards.
  You navigate a giant city map (you get to name the City... wow) . There are two main locals at first (store 
 and home) and a train station to another map becomes available later. A few temporary hotspots 
 appear simply to serve the story events. You scan the city map using a hot-or-cold system to discover 
 duelists or pedestrians. At first, you be able to tell which is which. Later, features are added 
 to let you know the difference. Dueling people builds a relationship that serves to eventually 
 allow to you play them anytime, trade cards, and receive deck recipes. They'll even email you in 
 the game once they like you enough. You only get to explore the city for a specific amount of time 
 (morning to evening) . Different duelists come out at different points of the day. Time passes by 
 dueling and moving from place to place. Once it's late enough, you have to return home. In your 
 room (the only place you can see in your house) , there is a treasure box for saving the game, bed 
 to sleep in to move to the next day, your computer to access email (story related events mainly) 
 and multiplayer functions, deck construction item, and the exit. 
  After each duel you win, you receive points for experience and for credit to buy cards from the 
 store. There are multiple bonuses that add extra credit for specific actions during the duel ranging 
 from what you have in your deck to the type of duel you're in (duel, match, shadow game) . If you 
 lose a duel, you only gain credits equal to the number of turns you survived. Most times, losing 
 won't end the game. Shadow games, occuring when a special random duelist ambushes you at night 
 or for "boss" duels, are a matter that can end your game. Luckily, you can save so you'll just 
 have to start back from where you saved last. Save often, since you'll need the valuable points 
 for the expensive (in quantity) card packs and luck being a big factor in duels. The computer shuffles 
 decks rather fairly, although there are clear instances where you get a better or horrible shuffle. 
 As for levels, gaining levels serves to unlock extra packs in the store and puzzle games that you 
 can play for credit points. Also, you get a huge sum of credit when you level up, so there is a 
 continuous reason to level up even after you unlock all the packs and puzzles.
  In side the store, there is the practice table, register counter, and password machine. The password 
 machine isn't unlocked until very late in the game, and never really serves much purpose unless 
 you're having trouble getting a specific card. The practice table has the tutorial ruling list 
 and puzzle list. Each puzzle can be played multiple times, but the rewards for correctly completely 
 the puzzle can only be collected once. Each puzzle is a one-turn-win situation, and the difficulty 
 ranges from obvious to frustratingly precise. You'll enjoy (or hate) this little feature. The Register 
 counter allows you to browse the pack sets you've unlocked and buy packs. Once again, you can't 
 buy singles. There is a nifty feature that records how many of the games total library of cards 
 and lists for individual sets when you collect 80% of the set. 
  As for the game's card library, its very up-to-date. Featuring cards from TV exclusives to rare 
 promos and the Flaming Eternity set. A lot of the usless common filler cards from previous games 
 have been removed for the more interesting (and playable) cards. Mainly real game strategies can 
 be translated to the game with minor tweaks. Some special monster types feature only select monsters 
 to fit TV deck themes (A little disappointing) . While new cards are featured, opponents' decks 
 will all possess a few staple cards, no matter who you duel. God cards are playable for once.
 
  Graphics are amazing. The cards are perfectly scanned, characters have good art, and the inclusion 
 of a 3D duel field and 3D monster sprites all add a nice flare to the rather flat gaming experience. 
 Sound is also nice. While the music is appropriate, the sound effects are too repetitive and cannot 
 be turned off. You're probably going to shut off the sound.
  Multiplayer functions are Yu-Gi-Oh standard: trade cards and duel fellow human players. No download 
 play or online functionality, unfortunately. This could have been remedied by assigning a randomly 
 selected pre-loaded deck to each player for download-play ability. The Wi-Fi makes it easier for 
 dueling, but the next iteration with online functionality will truly mark yu-gi-oh gaming evolution. 
 
  The DS is the hand-held YGO games have been waiting for. The large memory, touch screen, wireless 
 play all help bring more to YGO games. This game is the latest and the best. You won't find another 
 game that replicates the real game experience better than this one... for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruipaulo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 7:34 am PT
Review:  This is just the game I was waiting for... ABSOLUTELY amazing!!! Everything makes a perfect combination!!! 
 The first time I heard about this game was about 2 years ago. I saw a short movie about it and 
 I thank it would be wonderful... The graphics in the movie were extraordinary... In fact, they 
 seemed like PS2. However, they changed the game graphics and now they don't seem like PS2, but 
 they're great anyway. 
  ==  The gameplay is the same as the other YGO games, with some changes of course, and I think it 
 is more enjoyable, specially for the ones that know the rules. At the beginning of the game, Solomon 
 asks you if you already know the rules or not; so, no problem if you never played YGO before: that's 
 your chance!!! Try it, that's a well spent money!!! You can move around the city and find duelists, 
 a card game shop... and other buildings when yoiu advance in the game. There are two tournaments 
 you entry in: The Beginner and the Expert. Test your skills against 38 characters, including Noah, 
 Gozaburo and the Big 5. You can use all the Egyptian god cards. However, you cannot have all the 
 3 in your deck at the same deck by yourself, only if one of your friends so nice at the point of 
 give you one of them. Around 1058 cards are available, and some of them the most recent. 
  == The graphics are very beautiful, but they're not the best ones in the world. However, it is 
 must more enjoyable to play cards and watch to the monsters and cards' actions.
  ==  Oh... the sound... it is not bad, and I like it. However, They could input some of the musics 
 of Yu-gi-oh, the ones that we hear while the characters are dueling. Some of the musics in the 
 game are really boring. So, don't worry if you play the game while you listen to other music. 
 
  =  If you really enjoy the game, then you'll say that the game is not short. It has lots of cards, 
 you can duel every-time you want with often the character you want to duel with..... I f you like 
 YGO, then this game has an infinite duration!
  =  I've to say that his is my favourite game ever!!! The coolest one, specially for a BIG and HUGE 
 Ygo fan like me!!!!!!
  If you want to spend money with this game and if you really love YGO or want to learn it, do it, 
 cuz this will be one of the best games you'll by on your life!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaGame911
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games for the DS well for me it is. I mean it its an addicting game in 
 this game you feel like your actually part of the story they say your name which is cool you have 
 conversations with the characters from yugioh example Yugi Joey u get the idea they have in this 
 game great use of the touch screen but you can use the buttons too if you want and not use the 
 touch screen at all but I perfer to use it because in some ways its easier to play the game and 
 thats all i got to say if your not sure to buy or rent it you should rent it from gamefly like 
 I did and if you like it buy it from gamefly like I didand you get it from them from them for a 
 cheaper price thanks for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight42092
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Yu-Gi-Oh: Nightmare Troubadour marks one of the last of the remaining games that made their debut 
 at the launch of the Nintendo DS at the Electronic Entertainment Expo 2004. It's taken more than 
 a year for Konami to put the finishing touches on the company's dual screen version of its immensely 
 popular card game, and though the game isn't a hugely overwhelming presentation other than offering 
 a tighter and easier-to-follow interface, it's a decent effort on the Nintendo handheld.
  
  Anyone unfamiliar with the Yu-Gi-Oh series, here's the game in a nutshell: players put together 
 a card deck of monsters, magic attacks, and traps, and go up against other players' decks in a 
 one-on-one battle. Players take turns putting down a single monster in attack or defense position, 
 as well as activating magic powers that could give the player or his monsters enhanced abilities, 
 or take away something from the opposition. Flip-effect cards can change the course of a battle; 
 putting them face down may force the opponent to attack the card, which will activate a special 
 ability that could hurt the opponent, his monster, or help the owner of that card. The match is 
 over when a players' 8000 hit points is whittled away to nothing.
  
  Konami found a lucrative home for its Yu-Gi-Oh series on the Game Boy Advance, as the company used 
 that platform to release at least eight games bearing the franchise's name. The best ones were 
 the games that simply converted the card game experience to a portable form -- the company attempted 
 a RPG design with a truncated card battle rule set that just didn't work nearly as well.
  
  But even though the card battle productions on the GBA did a decent job showing how fun, deep, 
 and intense Yu-Gi-Oh matches can get, the company insisted on keeping anything not related to the 
 card battle as minimal as possible. That meant that any sort of presentation outside of battles 
 were incredibly basic or non-existent -- games like Pokemon Trading Card Game on the Game Boy Color 
 and SNK vs. Capcom: Card Fighters Clash on the NeoGeo Pocket Color trounced anything that Konami 
 put out when it came to a full-fledged card game adventure. The fact that no Game Boy Advance game 
 offered any sort of training mode for the card battle design almost showed a side of arrogance 
 on the part of Konami and its designers. Don't know how to play? Dang you, everyone knows how to 
 play, and so should you!
  
  Yu-Gi-Oh: Nightmare Troubadour could actually be the first videogame version of the card game that 
 actually teaches newbies to the design how to play the card battle game, and that, in itself, is 
 points to the DS version. It's not presented all that elaborately outside of a list of rules and 
 elements that can be read at any time in the game's "store" so that players can find out why one 
 card outplayed another, or why one card couldn't be pulled up at a specific time. But the DS edition 
 of Yu-Gi-Oh has a "puzzle mode" that puts players into specific situations, and it's here that 
 these newbies can figure out the effects of one card on another before they go into their card 
 battling career. It's great that Konami has finally acknowledged that there's an audience out there 
 that's never bought a pack of cards or knows the difference between a creature and a trap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarus_37
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Ive played many yugioh games for game consoles, they were all slow going or had the rules all messed 
 up......... Nightmare Troubadour is diffrent. Starting deck is pretty decent and you can win most 
 of your games at the start. The whole Battle City map concept is awsome, gives the game that tv 
 show type appeal to it and your not just clicking oppents to battle over and over and over. This 
 map style gives you more of a random chance of who your dueling. Later in game u add duelest as 
 friends and duelest which is cool if you want to practice on the weaker duelest for easy KP. Game 
 is decently long, as you have to buy lots of packs of cards to upgrade your deck to be strong enough 
 to win the Tournys. A really great plus in this game is you can use the Egyptian God Cards, which 
 kicks butt. The game is easy to play for those who know the game and for newcomers you could learn 
 the game within an hour or so after reading the game manual. Card booster selection is good, only 
 downfall is this game uses the new Forbidden Cards rule and so lots of the powerfull cards are 
 now banned but later you can use 1 forbidden card in your deck which is a plus and most the forbidden 
 cards have a "sister" card almost just as good. Worth buying if your into Yugioh or a good CCG 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:33 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impresed but also a little disappointed.
  
  Gameplay: You are a kid and you are trying to become the yugioh master. I was a little disappointed 
 about this game for only one reason, you have to wait a long time before you can fight another 
 player. But still, The gameplay overall are amazing.
  
  Graphics: Unbelivible. The best graphics I have ever seen in a Yugioh game. The cards look amazing, 
 the attacks are incredible and the players are stunning.
  
  Sound: When you hear the sound, you feel like you are playing a Yugioh game. 
  
  Value: You 
 can play for hours and hours trying to finish the game and get all the cards. The online is incredible 
 and this game overall is incredible.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is the best Yugioh game out there and you should definitely 
 go and try this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike_the_gooner
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:31 am PT
Review:  First off well done to konami for changing this game so much. The first thing that fans will tell 
 is that the duelists actually have their own decks that they use in the series. They've added so 
 many more cards such Gilford the lighting and the Dark paladin. But still kept the old favourites 
 such as the Dark Magicain and Blue eyes.
  
  The game will start by asking for your name, what you want to call the place where you live in 
 the game. Then you are aked questions about your dueling personality. I won't spoil it so i won't 
 mention the questions. But this will give you different cards depending on your answer. 
  
  When you finally get to play the game and duel it's so much fun and really feels like the real 
 deal like the cartoon. This is really due to the fact that they have there own decks. This game 
 however doesn't fully throw you into the action as you can get tips on the rules and how to play 
 when you meet yugi's grandad in the KC shop where you can also buy packs using Kaiba money which 
 you will recieve when you defeat dueliests. There is a map which will allow you to move around 
 and look for dueliests which is a nice touch. However I still wish they'd have done a mode where 
 your character can actually move like on the GBA games.
  
  The game is quite slow to begin with but when you start to duel and gain money and new cards the 
 game is just great. The animation on cards is very detailed and lifelike to the cards you have 
 for real. The graphics are quite good too with the way that monsters are summoned and spell cards 
 are used. There are short videos too which are good but very brief they could be longer. The stylus 
 pen is used to good effect and you can use it for basically everything in the duel. But if you 
 don't like then you can still use the d-pad. It can also be used on the map where you found dueliests.
 
  
  The sound is good but very repeative which happens very quickly. The main disappointment is still 
 the fact that the characters don't have voice overs. I know that it picky but in mind the only 
 yu-gi-oh games that has this is the PC games such joey the passion. 
  
  Gameplay wise you can't find many games that offers more hours of play than a yu-gi-oh game and 
 this is very long indeed. The fact that there are around 20 packs too get and over 1000 cards to 
 collect not to mention the fact that you have to win tournments. Then there's the shadow games 
 which is very deadly in the way that if you lose it's gameover so be careful doing this period. 
 Even then there's over 20 dueliests to find over the course of the game. It makes this yu-gi-oh 
 game a very deep and detailed game.
  
  Finally I think that this is a game should be owned by every single yu-gi-oh fan out there and 
 should be tried by people who are considering or want something different on their DS. Quite simply 
 this game shouldn't be missed and is by far the best in the series. A superb game and one of the 
 better games on the DS. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolieo43
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  if you like turn-based yu-gi-oh card action than this game is for you! This is the best out of 
 the series and also the most highly detailde as well. This game offers more than just dueling, 
 it actually gives you a story. You also get to make your on identity which is pretty awesome but 
 you begin in puzzle city when the hold a tournament where they give you a duel disk. After the 
 meeting for the tournament you go around fighting duelists to gain experience and money. You can 
 use this money to buy yu-gi-oh! packs and as you gain higher levels you get better packs. Then 
 eventually you run into the paradox brothrs and some other shadow duelists. I can't give it all 
 away cause there is more of a story but overall this is one of the best yu-gi-oh! games ever. If 
 you are planning to buy a yu-gi-oh game this is the one. What are you waiting for go now! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfarrell76
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Duelling, duelling, and duelling is what this game is about. There are a few glitches in the game, 
 but nothing major that would make me believe I wasted money. The monsters appear in 3-D, but had 
 battle animations been included, no matter how small, I'm sure it would be way cooler! Yu-gi-oh: 
 Nightmare Troubadour is an excellent game. It provides for an awesome experience of true duelling 
 on a handheld. All the rules in the game come from the real official rules, so you can learn, and 
 use several awesome new cards, one of my favorites being "Blast Sphere"!!! All-in-all, a true duelist 
 would not knock this video game down. Hopefully the future will provide us with a newer version 
 that includes cards from GX! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IChangedMyName
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 27, 2005 1:35 am PT
Review:  Yugioh... not much of favorite among many crowds but the one it is its a god. but Yugioh NT will 
 change anyone who owns a DS or even PSP minds of the power of DS. the game takes full advantage 
 of the 2 screens and all of the advantage of the touch screen. story mode could have been better, 
 but its a yugioh game you can expect much. i liked the Graphics of monsters and the way the game 
 acatully teaches people 2 play the yugioh card game being it uses acatully game rules in it video 
 duels. lacks interest and replay but plenty of addicting duels. the best parts of the game 2 me. 
 what kept me going actaully was that i needed money for packs of cards so i could beat the socks 
 off a yugi fanatic at a friends house (I. E. his lil brother) its best feature is deuling other players.. 
 when you can find some. i recomend if you like card playing games, and sticking 2 the game rules 
 yugioh NT is a definite must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lickop
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 24, 2005 5:32 pm PT
Review:  "This is by far the best handheld... no, the best yugioh game period.
  The graphics are much better looking than the 3d models on forbidden memories [they may not attack, 
 but still] . I like the adventurous map, it helps 
  to add more variety to it. The touch screen has been used to a good point, for it can control pretty 
 much the entire duel. Just touch your command and watch your cards obliterate your oppenent. Huge 
 improvement to the gba games and is recommended as at least a rental to yugioh fans. They even 
 have a card shop where you can learn all the official rules of the game! Overall, i can't wait 
 for another one [please Konami?] . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexy_hinoki
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 21, 2005 6:40 am PT
Review:  This is a game that yu-gi-oh fan should own. The use of the touch screen is used very good, it 
 really feels like you have cards in your hand and are moving them around with the touch screen. 
 Most game the action is always on one screen but this time the action is on both screens. The top 
 has all the life points and the 3d monsters fighting, will yhe bottom has the card action and the 
 phase action. So again this is a great game for fans but non-fans will not like this game or start 
 likeing the really card game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderfan71890
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 18, 2005 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Yu-Gi-Oh! has spawned many titles. Some based on the Anime, such as the Gameboy Advance's The Sacred 
 Cards, and some based on the card game, such as the Gameboy Advance's Eternal Duelist Soul, and 
 some just made for money, such as Playstation 2's Duelist of the Roses and the Nintendo Gamecube's 
 Falsebound Kingdom. This title is Expert Rules, which means it follows the rules of the Yu-Gi-Oh! 
 Trading Card Game. 
  
  Other Expert Rules games suffered from lack of a story, a horrible deck creation system, bad AI, 
 and other flaws. I am glad to say that this game has fixed a lot. 
  
  Lets start at the things it fixed from previous Yu-Gi-Oh! Titles. For the first one it has added 
 a storyline. It has fixed the deck creation system by making it clean and easy to go through. It 
 has fixed the AI to an extent. But it still suffers from music issues. And a lot of other flaws. 
 
  
  The flaws in the game include a horrible translation. The card Deck Destruction Virus hasn't even 
 been translated right. The AI is also flawwed with sudden victory draws and drawing nothing but 
 what it needs through a whole duel. But while the AI isn't the best it is the best out of all the 
 Yu-Gi-Oh! titles. 
  
  The game's storyline is based off of the Battle City season of the Anime. However it is not Battle 
 City. Seto Kaiba throws a tournament consisting of the Beginner's Cup and the Expert Cup. Other 
 storylines have their own versions in this game. Such as Marik, who's story appears after the tournament. 
 And Noah, who traps you in a virtual world during the tournament. Overall the story is nice and 
 it was well thought out. 
  
  The sound and music really need reworking. The music during duels alone is enough to drive you 
 mad! The monster summonings are pretty good and so is most sound effects. But the sound effects 
 are bland and just taken from the GBA, or made in the likeness of a GBA title, and get repetitive 
 to listen to. 
  
  The game's score is gonna be boosted a bit due to the fact that it added something needed. A tutorial! 
 While fully text based the tutorial is enough to get new players info on how to play. Nightmare 
 Troubador excells in an area never put in Yu-Gi-Oh! handheld games before. It includes a full 3D 
 look of the dueling field and 2D sprites of the monsters. I am sad to report that no Yu-Gi-Oh! 
 Console game has done this. 
  
  The touch screen is used a LOT! and I mean a LOT! You can play the entire game without pressing 
 a button! However they do have button controls for those who tire of using the stylus. The bottom 
 screen, outside of duels, shows a map or a 3D view of an area you are in. The map can be searched 
 to find duelists then you can travel to the duelist and duel them. Inside of duels the bottom screen 
 is a full 2D view of the same duel field. You can use the touch controls to duel! 
  
  The gameplay is nice because it follows the Trading Card game as much as it can. Complaints can 
 be found in the fact that there is no "ARE YOU SURE" button popup just in case you didn't mean 
 to do something. There is horribly lucky AI, especially with Joey Wheeler, and can draw the right 
 thing at the right time more then you can. Lack of things to do other then dueling also hold this 
 title, and most Expert Rules titles, back. 
  
  Buying card packs is very annoying in this game. You pay 150 Kaiba Corp Points (KCP) per pack and 
 only get 5 cards. Those cards may or may not be new. As you collect cards you have an indicator 
 telling you how much percentage you have of that pack. Once you gain 80% Solomon Moto (Yugi's Grandpa) 
 will give you a list of all the cards in that pack. 
  
  Once you have obtained 80% of a pack, or one of a certain card in general, and have won the Expert 
 Cup you have the ability to use the password machine. But to be frank it isn't worth it. 1,000 
 KCP just to buy 1 card. And you can only get one from a pack you have 80% from or you already have 
 in your trunk. This is a big letdown especially due to the fact that in other games you could freely 
 get cards from the machine. 
  
  Overall I must say the game is a great title for Yu-Gi-Oh! fans and those who like the Trading 
 Card Game. But hopefully some things can be improved in a sequel for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpanishPeacock
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 15, 2005 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Though the card game seems to be out right now, the game is still pretty fun (considering it actually 
 follows the rules of the card game) . If you liked the card game, and your friends don't anymore, 
 at least you can play the people on the game. The game itself is the best of the ones I've played, 
 but if you have to ride the bus, you may not want to bring this with you. I like the touch screen/place 
 card system, but when your sitting next to a kid for a half an hour, they tend to want to touch 
 stuff, and accidently using an equip card on an opponents monster gets REALLY FRICKING ANNOYING! 
 So if you like the series, don't want to take advantage of having it on a portable system, and 
 don't sit next to an idiot on the bus or have motion sickness, it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-Prime
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2005 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Yu-Gi-Oh! Nightmare Troubadour was unveiled by Konami at E3 2004 as the first game of its kind 
 on the newly-unveiled Nintendo DS and now, more than a year later, it has been presented to us. 
 As usual, its goal is to present to card game in video game form, and thanks to the DS hardware, 
 it accomplishes this quite nicely.
  
  First off, if you're not a fan of Yu-Gi-Oh! or don't know anything about it, don't bother with 
 this game. Aside from a few tutorial-like battles at the beginning of the game, Nightmare Troubadour 
 assumes the player already has knowledge of the card game. OK, now on to the game itself. The battles 
 themselves are divided into the two screens. On top, you see the monsters, spells and traps you've 
 played on a 3-D rendered field, and on the bottom is a top-down overhead view of the normal field, 
 just like a regular card game. The rules are the ones used as of March 2005, so as it is with every 
 Yu-Gi-Oh! game, some cards are illegal to have in your deck, and some you can only have one or 
 two of (the limit on any card is three) . 
  
  Once you're in battle, there's really nothing to it if you know what you're doing. One of the more 
 positive things about this game is that the DS makes for a much more comfortable card battler than 
 the GBA ever could. You can play this entire game with the stylus if you so choose; you can tap 
 the bottom screen to draw your card, set and summon monsters, set and play spells and traps, choose 
 which opponent's monsters to target, and choose what phase you're in. If the pen isn't your thing, 
 you can still use the control pad and four buttons, but if you're gonna do that you might as well 
 play one of the GBA games because, like I said before, having it on the DS makes it flow much better 
 and makes it generally more fun to play.
  
  Nightmare Troubadour's attempt at a story is about what you'd expect. The Kaiba Corporation is 
 holding yet another Duel Monsters tournament, and you've entered it, but there are sinister figures 
 just waiting behind the scenes. You're given a Duel Disk, which stores your deck and all your extra 
 cards, and set out to battle other duelists in the city for a chance at the top. To find other 
 duelists, you have to use the DS's bottom screen as a radar. Using either the control pad or the 
 stylus, you move the blue cursor until you hit an area that turns it green, which means someone 
 is nearby. Move it slowly until it turns pink and flashes very quickly, and even slower still until 
 you've found the opponent in the area, and then you can begin your battle. All duelists you'll 
 encounter are recognizable characters from the show, from Yugi and Joey, to Weevil Underwood, Rex 
 Raptor, Bandit Keith, the annoying Rebecca and even Pegasus and **** Ishtar.
  
  You can earn KC points to buy new packs of cards from the card shop in duels. You get a certain 
 amount for winning, and miscellaneous points for a wide number of bonuses, such as winning in three 
 turns, not using any spells, having all your monster zones filled, and so on. More sets get unlocked 
 as you progress, and every so often a truly good card will come out of a pack. If you're a real-life 
 Yu-Gi-Oh player, you're gonna have to swallow your pride for a while, because for pretty much the 
 first half of the game, you're limited to rather low ATK monsters and a few wimpy spells and traps. 
 The good thing about this is that your opponents will be about the same level as you, so you don't 
 really have to worry if Neo the Magical Swordsman (ATK 1700, DEF 1000) is your strongest monster 
 for a while. Just throw the right cards together and you'll be fine. Later on, more and more complex 
 sets will be unlocked, and they offer up some of the rarest and most powerful cards in the game 
 that you've likely never seen before, or ever seen one or two of.
  
  The Link Play mode is also a nice touch, mostly because I don't need my annoying Link Cables anymore. 
 In Link Play mode, you can duel your friends, trade for cards you don't have, and so on. If you 
 and your friend know what you're doing, it can be quite a kick. Most of the fun is being able to 
 see the monsters in 3-D, instead of having to rely on the illustrations of the regular TCG.
  
  All in all, Yu-Gi-Oh! Nightmare Troubadour is a surprisingly good game, and it's also highly 
 addictive in the "just one more battle... wow is it really two in the morning" sense. For any Yu-Gi-Oh! 
 fan out there, it also comes with the now-standard three bonus cards, these ones being for anyone 
 with a Spellcaster deck. I wasn't expecting a very complex story or fighting system or any such 
 nonsense, but for a game of this type, that's how I like it anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_vash_x
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 12, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up on a Whim, half expecting it to make me cringe and wish I had half the mind 
 not to bother with it. I found three actual cards in the box and thought to myself "oh great... 
 this really is aimed at seven year olds... no way this game could be any deeper than the cartrige 
 itself". Fortunatly for you, the reader, it was deep.
  
  Gameplay: 9 of 10
  This is what games should be about, the gameplay. The game itself isn't just enjoyable, but incorperating 
 the touch screen gives the feeling of playing an actual card game rather than a watered down video 
 game port
  
  Depth: 8 of 10
  It isn't Magic: the Gathering DS but the game itself contains well over 1000 cards, and not just 
 the ones that comply with current rules of the actual game. It is rather enjoyable to try and collect 
 each and every card out there *even if it's a forbidden card, and not usable in conventional duels* 
 and I must say, the new card collecting system is far better than any of last due to the ability 
 to select from a group of "booster packs" and also being displayed what percentage you've collected 
 already. The strategic element of the gameplay itself is remarkable in its own right, duels aren't 
 just about power, but incorperate hundreds of different ways to take down your opponent *or even 
 having them take themselves down*
  
  Graphics: 7 of 10
  Nothing to complain so much about, and yet nothing to really babble on about. The Graphics are 
 clean and do a good job of presenting the game being played, nothing more, nothing less. While 
 the new prerendered monsters you get to see when you summen them is a wonderful touch, they aren't 
 well animated and don't do a thing when battle is declared. Some of the more well known or more 
 powerful cards have little actual 3D cutscenes which add a little exceitment but it would've been 
 nice to see *all* monsters geting this treatment, instead it feels like they just rushed the development 
 of this new feature.
  
  Sound: 5 of 10
  Not much to say here either, the music is nice and some sound effects can stir up a little exceitment, 
 but overall it's nothing to glorify and usually I just turn the volume off and listen to music 
 while playing
  
  Value: 10 of 10
  There is hundreds of hours of fun to be had as long as the player is the type who enjoys Strategy, 
 collecting, and dueling human players to see who has the best skill and deck in that order. I can't 
 stress enough how you won't ever put this game down on account of there being nothing left to accomplish
 
  
  This game is worth buying, even if you don't think it's your thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexanderStyhr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 18, 2005 10:25 am PT
Review:  Well, you have seen all the other games about Yu-gi-oh and they were pretty disapointing.
  But Nightmare Troubadour looks pretty good compared to other games.
  Now you can see you monsters 
 in action which give that kind of feeling that you really are playing and that the monsters really 
 are alive.
  And there will be a long play time because first you have to gather all the good cards and then 
 you have to combinate them so you can white your enemy out in no time.
  And when you've have found out which cards you will use you have to beat the game.
  So there 
 will be long playtime.
  The battles is now more enjoyable than ever cuz now you can watch the monsters fight each other 
 and get that satisfying feeling when your monster beats another monster or see one your trap cards 
 eliminate the enemy or make him weaker.
  So i think that we've got a winner with Yu-gi-oh: Nightmare Troubadour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunkz_Jr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 5, 2005 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Best Yu-Gi-Oh! Game by far compared to all the other platforms. I've played almost all of them, 
 and this is finally the game all Yu-Gi-Oh! Fans have been waiting for. The AI is so much better, 
 and able to make some good choices when playing a card (where as in the past, once you got a hold 
 of how the AI plays, you can easily win) I'd also like to say, that in the past games, they were 
 not able to create all of the cards and left out some (Too hard to code them maybe?) . Well this 
 game has finally got them all, such as Breaker the Magical Warrior, Cost down, Big Eye, Ordeal 
 of a Traveler and many more. So now I am going to give you the layout of this game:
  
  Graphics: Every monster in this game is in 3D on the top screen, It's very nice to see monsters 
 in positions that you've never seen before. Some people do not like it since the graphics are a 
 bit pixilated at times, and when you see your cards on the top screen It's a bit too zoomed in, 
 and at the bottom a bit too zoomed out. But if you compared it to the other games where you see 
 your cards, you would just see Yellow for Monster, green for Magic, and you'd always have to go 
 and check to see what card it was, at least now you're able to see the picture and know what card 
 it is, makes the game go faster. I'd also like to add when you play field card, the field changes 
 to what that card is (like umi will turn the field into the water like the picture is) I decided 
 to give this an 8.
  
  Gameplay: I thought it was a fun idea being able to search around the city with the touch screen 
 and find other duelists (only the ones from the show, not those nobody guys) but I think I'd prefer 
 to actually walk around rather then search. Being able to use the touch screen to duel makes the 
 rounds go so much faster (especially with the nice layout) when you destroy monsters, they shatter 
 like glass rather then going boom :P If you played the other games, you'll find this game to be 
 such a relief when dueling. if you haven't, then I hope you don't get bored so easily, as you'll 
 be dueling many times over and over. This game has a Leveling up system that you might enjoy, after 
 each duel you will get EXP (depending on how you play) as you go up in levels, the characters in 
 the game will also go up having better decks, and Going up in Levels also unlocks new packs. All 
 in all I gave this an 8.
  
  Sound: The sound is alright, nothing to wow you over. I was a little disappointed that they used 
 some of the same sound effects they used in the past, not all. The music is good, won't keep you 
 entirely bored. I'll give this a 7.
  
  Value: As in the past, you could always play multiplayer with friends, the wireless feature makes 
 thing so much easier and better of course, and with the amount of cards in this game and the new 
 ban list, you won't be seeing so many of the same decks. This game will have you playing many hours, 
 and dueling your friends will have you playing even longer, and for what the games worth, I'd say 
 you'd be getting your moneys worth. I gave this a 9.
  
  Final Review: I Recommend this game to all Yu-Gi-Oh! Fans who enjoy the TCG. I find myself playing 
 this non stop (even over my BF2) . With all the new cards, new features, and the helpful touch screen, 
 this makes out to be great game for the DS. Even if you're new to the TCG, this game does have 
 a rules area in the shop where you can learn all about how to play, so even the non TCG players 
 can finally have a blast. Expect to find this game from $39.99 to $49.99. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
