-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Zoo Keeper
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/zookeeper/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Catchy music.
 Good use of the stylus.
 Super addictive.
 Bejeweled's fun, and so is this.
 Compelling multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 It's a shameless clone of Bejeweled.
 US version's voices aren't as peppy as the Japanese release.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 21, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.5, 47 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 719 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ignition Entertainment
Developer: Buddiez
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Jan 18, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Zoo Keeper can be hard to put down once you've gotten into it. 

  Though many console game players may have never heard of it, there's a superpopular puzzle game 
 out there called Bejeweled. It's appeared in numerous forms on the PC, as well as on PDAs, cell 
 phones, and even the Xbox (via Microsoft's fledgling Xbox Live Arcade service) . Like most puzzle 
 games, it's a natural fit for handheld platforms like, say, the Nintendo DS. That's where Ignition 
 Entertainment's latest puzzle game, Zoo Keeper, comes in. Zoo Keeper is a shameless clone of PopCap 
 Games' pervasive puzzler, but it replaces jewels with animals and includes a few different modes 
 to choose from. And like the game it gets most of its ideas from, Zoo Keeper is a surprisingly 
 addictive puzzle game.  

          Let's not beat around the bush. This is Bejeweled with animals instead of jewels.     

 
  There's a bit of a story to Zoo Keeper, but as you'd expect, it's extremely thin and not at all 
 relevant to the action. You play as a zoo keeper. You must keep the animals orderly by lining them 
 up in rows of three or more. The game gives you an eight-by-eight grid full of different animal 
 heads. Your interaction with the board is limited to swapping one animal for any animal that's 
 directly adjacent to it. The catch is that you can only make a move if it lines up three or more 
 of the same animal in a row, which causes them to disappear from the board. With those tiles gone, 
 everything else drops down, and new tiles fill in the holes at the top. In the main mode, your 
 only enemy is time, and it's constantly running out. However, by making moves, you can stack more 
 time onto an onscreen meter. Additionally, if you're having trouble seeing any matches, you can 
 click on a pair of binoculars for a quick hint, though these hints are limited. If you find yourself 
 in a spot where there aren't any possible moves, the board clears, you're given a bonus, and a 
 new board is thrown up in its place so you can continue. While you can play Zoo Keeper with the 
 D pad and buttons, this is one game that really plays much, much better with the stylus.  

  The crazy thing about Zoo Keeper is that it's extremely simple... even simpler than most other puzzle 
 games, which tend to test your reflexes when the difficulty ramps up. Zoo Keeper moves at a much 
 slower pace. You don't have to worry about blocks dropping on you here. It's just you, your stylus, 
 and the board. The only time things get hectic is when the clock nearly expires, which causes the 
 board to shake to let you know that you're almost through. But despite this relatively low-impact 
 gameplay style, Zoo Keeper is really addictive. It's not much of a surprise, especially considering 
 how good Bejeweled was at roping in players from all walks of life, whether they played games previously 
 or not. But it's still worth noting that Zoo Keeper can be hard to put down once you've gotten 
 into it.  

  Aside from the normal mode, there are a few different variants to choose from, too. Tokoton 100 
 mode changes the level-up rules a bit. Time attack gives you a limited amount of time to score 
 as many points as possible. Quest is a 10-stage mode, and each stage gives you a different task 
 to complete. Two-player mode, which works with the Nintendo DS one-card multiplayer functionality, 
 lets you compete against another player. When you do well, you remove time from your opponent's 
 clock, and the match ends when one player runs out of time.  

          Zoo Keeper is simple enough for anyone to get into.     

  Graphically, Zoo Keeper is 
 a one-screen game on a two-screen system. The upper screen is used to show your score and a large 
 picture of the "lucky" animal, which gives you double points for one of the game's animal types. 
 It's bright and colorful, and the blocky animal designs are stylistically interesting. The music 
 and sound effects also contribute to the light atmosphere.  

  When you look at Zoo Keeper strictly as a DS game and ignore the outside world, it's a great puzzle 
 offering that looks nice and offers play that can be really habit-forming. But when you realize 
 that Zoo Keeper is basically a clone of a game that you can download for free for the PC or for 
 various PDAs, it's slightly tougher to recommend. Still, if you're on the go and you're after a 
 good, strong DS puzzler, Zoo Keeper's definitely worth it.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (55 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pokolvrolok
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 25, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  In the game you are given the job as a zoo keeper and you must get all the animals which are mixed 
 together, back with their own animal type.
  To achieve this you must get out your stylus, tap an animal portrait to alert it then tap another 
 to get them to switch position. You must do this repeatedly in order to get 3 or more animals of 
 the same type in a row. Once you have achieved this, they will disappear and you must do the same 
 thing until there are no more animals on the screen.
  You will then proceed to the next level and then do the same routine continuously!
  It is a very 
 linear and rather dull game idea but once you begin, you are hooked!
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who likes simple but fun games.
  This isn't the most innovative 
 game ever but it works quite well, makes good use of the stylus and delivers as a good ds game.
 
  
  Pokolvrolok. Please read my other reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  An extremely fun puzzle game. I bought it for a trip and I played it nonstop for 4 hours then another 
 2. A great game. Too bad I lost the cartridge. But this game is great. Its is colorful, fun and 
 cool. This game sucks you in. Its really great. I bought this for an 8 hour trip. PLayed it 6 hours 
 of the car ride. It is a pretty, fun and addictive game. I even played it 3 0r 4 hours on the way 
 back. I really love this game, I bought it because it was the cheapest thing I saw at the store 
 to entertain me for a trip. Turns out I played that game every stinkin day until I lost it... Hey!!!! 
 I found it (opens metroid game case) yess (runs to play it again) Look at all the animals! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! S w i t c h! Okay well anyway. My point, buy this if you like puzzle games. . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . go . . . really its fun . . . . I give it an 9.0 . . . Oh! I forgot to 
 list the bad things. Umm. The stylus can get annoyin I think . . . . Ermmm... Maybe I should have 
 given it a ten... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  its a very fun game.... sure its a clone of bejewelled but i enjoy more. Its got a couple of fun 
 modes that can keep the attention to this title and will keep busy for a while.... its also good 
 ebcause you can have single cart multiplayer with 2 DS's.... and the vs play is a blast. The graphics 
 arent anything special... if anything they'r probably one of the worest on the DS... but its still 
 so fun to play it doesnt really matter. This was my first DS game i bought and still play it to 
 this day.... and you can probably find this VERY CHEAP.... so pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graffiti14
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Once you get into this game it is very hard to put away and more hard to even take a break! This 
 game was a bit poor looking when i first saw but i thought i would give it a go anyway and i am 
 glad I did. Average graphics, nice sound and very good gameplay. The only negative thought I had 
 about it was that it could have had more variety on the different styles of puzzle. My fave part 
 about it is the brick style animals which i thought was a very nice touch to it. Bravo whoever 
 made it, iv hadhours of fun. =] Overall: Worth a go for sure I took the chance and was glad that 
 i did, but if this is not your kinda thing don't bother.
  
  Like Pokemon? Visit my site at www. freewebs. com/graffitishelp 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TNgal22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  This game is not the high tech flashy games like most but it is a game well worth your time! I 
 love Bejeweled so I thought I would give this game a try, I LOVE IT! I even got my mom and brother 
 in law addicted and had to buy them their own games! The music is kinda of cheesy but I put in 
 my headphones and listen to my MP3 and play for hours! The quest is hard to do, the 30 chains gets 
 me! LOL Since it is an older game, it is hard to find. I just happened upon one at a store. The 
 other two I ordered, I got off Ebay! This game is worth the time to search for! If you can make 
 it through the normal level, you will find out why the Zoo Keeper is so angry!!! I have done it 
 once! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droler
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy light games on the PC and on my hand helds. This is a very good Bejeweled clone that is 
 much more portable than its counterparts on PDA's or cell phones - better than PDA's for the graphics 
 and battery life and better than cell phones for the controls (touch screen beats numeric pad any 
 day) . I don't pack my Pocket PC with me all the time - but if I plan to play any games I always 
 have my DS or GBA handy - this game makes the DS indispensable when you need a quick fix.
  
  If you like to have something at hand while waiting for a movie to start or just to kill 5 
 minutes during a slow period of work - or for any reason (car ride for the kids?) you could do 
 a lot worse than Zoo Keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esfoad
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 8, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Being a puzzle game fan, I am always willing to try and and all puzzlers that have hit the DS. 
 Zoo Keeper was no exception despite it's initial similarities to Bejewled. Several hours later 
 I'm very happy I did.
  
  The mostly laid back nature of the game never quite approaches frantic but that's part of the appeal. 
 It's a relaxing puzzle challenge that is fun for all ages. Between the vibrant colors and animal 
 theme this game has enough charm to appeal to all DS owners. The one drawback to the game for me 
 is the repetitive nature of the puzzles themselves. Fortunately there is a secondary gameplay mode 
 that runs you through a series of challenges (which are the same puzzles from the standard game 
 mode but strung togther in a series of ten) .
  
  This game is portable, appealing to all ages, and, above all, fun. It might not be a grade A full 
 price title but it's definitely worth a look from any DS puzzle game fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faraz3671
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 1, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  this game is good but not good enough.... not the best puzzle game on the ds !!!!
  i mean who wouldn't like these cute animals but thts probably about the only thing good about this 
 game.... it could have been better
  the graphics are good, the animals have been designed nicely and the music is also good but despite 
 that almost nothing else is good !!!!
  some people may like this game but its not for me.... i'd rather go online and play bejewelled !!!
 
  to sum it up the cute graphics don't make up for the actual game which is not presented well... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stixes14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  This game is fun no matter what it has a really cool multiplayer i use to play all the time at 
 school during lunch with friends its game play is so called FUN!!!! and the multiplayer is called 
 SUPER FUN!!!!!!! but the only reason i sold was for a dumb ass psp game but over all this game 
 is a must have for family and friend fun.
  
  The DS is a fun system not like the the PSP all the same games like button pressing i wanted some 
 that would make me use my hands so i got a DS and you know what im going to go pick up this game 
 friday i miss it. : ( : ( . But over all its a really fun game and vary addicting so a\ITS A BUY 
 PEOPLE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  The average person has probably heard of the game Bejewled. You have a square grid with diamonds 
 and you have to shuffle the diamonds around to get three or more in a row. In other words its kind 
 of like Tetris without falling blocks in the sense that you are stacking blocks. But Zoo Keeper 
 has something that makes it very different from Bejewled it that instead of using shiny diamonds 
 you take the place of a guy who has no name that works at the Zoo and you have to get three or 
 more animals of different species such as lions, bears, pandas, and monkeys. There are four modes 
 you can choose from you can do the standard mode where you have to capture a certain ammount of 
 each animal. There is also the Tokoton 100 mode where you have to capture 100 of a certain animal 
 to beat the level. If you don't want to do any of those two there is also the short story mode 
 where you will be given 10 small tasks the better you do on these tasks the more points you get. 
 And there is also a Vs. Mode where you can battle a friend which is quite fun. The graphics are 
 very simple and cartoony but good. The sound is good too there are little animal noises in the 
 background. Zoo Keeper is a great Bejewled clone that replaces diamonds with animals so if you 
 can find a copy I suggest that you check this great game out.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stez-X
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 20, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I have been playing Zoo Keeper (On and Off) for the past year and a half or so, making 
 it one of the most played games in my entire collection. The word addictive springs to mind, but 
 the word I will use is 'Unputdownable.'
  
  Sure, it's just like several other puzzlers, but is there anything else that the puzzle market 
 can do? Zoo Keeper thought, we'll put really cool, random looking animals in a simple yet addictive 
 game. And it worked...
  
  It's one of those games you can just 'Pick-up and play'. You know, Pickupandplayable. You just 
 use the DS's touch screen to swap around the animals heads on the screen, to make a 3 in a row 
 pattern. There's always one on the screen, and if not, it just resets the animals heads. Just to 
 mention that the top Screen the 'Lucky Animal' that double your points you get and does the funkiest 
 dance when you score its heads!!!
  
  If you get stuck, the 3 help buttons at the right of the touch screen help enormously. They may 
 be needed if you are to keep your timer up. Everytime you score a combo, your green bar timer goes 
 up a little, but you'll soon be stringing along giant patterns, so the timer is not an issue. The 
 games content is a little on the light side, with only a few modes, Standard, Tokoton (Endless) , 
 Mission, Time Trial and Multiplayer. Time Trial is the one you'll be playing, using all of your 
 crazy stratiegies to rack up the points. Standard is just the same as Time trial, except it only 
 ends when you reach level 20, which should take a fair while.
  
  Tokoton just goes on forever and ever, leveling up when you get 100 (Yes that many) of one of the 
 animals heads. Multiplayer delivers no real thrills, without Wi-Fi, but nevertheless, you should 
 try it out. Mission mode is a fresh idea, but some missions can be EXTREMELY annoying and take 
 up to 10 minutes to do. And even when you do them, it halfs your score because you took so long.
 
  
  Overall, if your a puzzle fan, Zoo Keeper is probably a game you should consider buying. It's only 
 &pound;20.00 (Probably cheaper now and in a bargain bin near you) but there is plenty of reasons 
 why you should play this game, thought there are only a few sounds waiting for you, each very annoying. 
 The Monkey, Panda, Giraffe, Hippo, Elephant, Frog, Lion and Bunny's are all waiting for you! Buy 
 Zoo Keeper!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Zoo Keeper is basically your typical bejewelled game - with Animals thrown into the fray.
  
  it takes the well known and well liked bejewelled formula and adds another gameplay twist / 
 factor of capturing certain types of animals a certain number of times.
  
  so instead of your typical match three in a row as many times as possible till time runs out solution, 
 Zoo Keeper forces you the look for a particular gem (in this case animal) and to focus on it for 
 more points and for the advancement of levels.
  
  the other thing that Zoo Keeper has that makes it a little more unique then other similiar type 
 games is its quest mode. its hard, very hard, but it keeps you coming back for more just to be 
 able to finish it successfully and get your name on the high score sheet.
  
  apart from this, dont be expecting anything else different from other bejewelled like games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rakelhj
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  I bought this for $15 at Target, and I'm definitely not complaining about the price, though I probably 
 would not pay more for it. It's a simple game with various different modes. Essentially, you can 
 play forever or you can have a time limit. The multiplayer can be fun, too, though it's kind of 
 unforunate that it's only for two players. It's definitely not a new game concept, but the graphics 
 are cute and it makes great use of the touch screen and feels quite natural. The stylus makes it 
 easy to make matches while the animals are in movement, which I always try to do to make the game 
 a little more challenging as that it's pretty easy. I kind of wish that the clock started draining 
 faster a little sooner into the game, because you can go on and on for thirty minutes... an hour... 
 for way too long without ever losing, and it's not quite a Tetris. Overall, it's a fun game that 
 I pull out every once in awhile when I'm in the mood. I could see this being a good game for a 
 child or a beginning gamer. Having young nieces and nephews, it's always nice to have a game around 
 that they can play without totally failing -- good confidience boost! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darrylchew91
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 29, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  have never played bejeweled before. this is suppose to be the animated version of bejeweled w the 
 cute animals. very easy to learn and though it that kind of game you dont even think about it. 
 you will naturallly pick it up to play time after time cos its entertaining. Not that kind of game 
 that keeps you very challanged all the time. but it does keep you entertained. there is the time 
 trial mode that keeps you fighting for the best time to beat the zoo keeper's top score. theres 
 also a quest mode that to my opinion, present you w almost impossible quest so that you will get 
 a good scolding from the zoo keeper. all in all, a very entertaining game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuesdaynext
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 7, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  Zoo Keeper is the most addictive puzzle game in my current game arsenal. For starters, it is very 
 simple to learn and understand. Match up three critters in a row using the stylus to tap and slide 
 the characters. The graphics are candy-colored cuteness which instantly appealed to my pop culture 
 sensibilities. The music can be a bit annoying but it can be turned off in the preferences.
  
  What made the game so appealing at my house is the timed mode. It sets the clock for six minutes 
 of gameplay which is often as much time as I have to devote to a game. For a train ride, waiting 
 in the lobby or waiting for a pot of tea, this is the perfect little diversion.
  
  Now if I could just beat my top score....! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qubeley
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 9, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Loved it on PS2 and love it even more on DS cos the control with the stylus made the game so much 
 more accessible. Once again proved that a game doesn't need to have state of the art polygon counts 
 to be fun. There are a number of different modes for you to play. That keeps you fresh with the 
 game most of the time. The principles are the same but it's the way they tweaked you to play it 
 strategically at certain mode that makes it challenging. Also the graphic are simple but adorable. 
 If you are into puzzle games and like puzzle games to look pretty with an easy to pick up learning 
 curve. Zoo Keeper is a definite choice for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  When I went to buy this game oh so long ago I was a bit skeptical about it. It didn't appear to 
 have to much to it and I wasn't sure if it would be worth my money. Luckily I got to try it out 
 before I played it and I was instantly hooked. 
  
  If you've played bejeweled you've played zookeeper. Just replace the jewels with some totally sweet 
 animals and the concept is the same. For those of you who aren't familar on the screen you'll have 
 an assortment of various animals and you can swap them one at a time with one that is either to 
 the left, right, top, or bottom. You must make a row of 3 (or more) during the swap for them to 
 dissapear or else they go back to where they started. A timer is constantly ticking and everytime 
 you delete some (or capture the animals in this case) you'll gain a bit of time. The more big combos 
 you do the more points you get. 
  
  Simple and fun. Thats probably the best way to describe this game. There are a few different modes 
 to it. A mission style mode gives you certain objectives that you must pass to move on, its so-so. 
 The main mode starts you at collecting 3 of each kind of animal then everytime you "level up" you 
 must collect one more than the last level to move on. Also, there is a mode where you must get 
 100 of each kind of animal to gain levels, which is pretty fun. If your into multiplayer you can 
 battle against your buddies (with or without a second ZK cartridge) . In that mode as you score 
 combos you'll deplete there time and vice versa. There are also some fun items in that mode. 
 
  
  If your into puzzle games for the DS this one is definitly a worthwhile buy especially at its current 
 bargain price. The music is outstanding to; you're never going to want to play it with the sound 
 off. Once you start up on this game there's a good chance you'll be very addicted very quickly 
 so pick it up and get going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeverdyWilson
Rating: 1.4
Date: May 7, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I have nearly nothing to say about this game. The only thing that it can be given credit for is 
 its somewhat spiffy art style. Everything else about it is dumb because it is almost exactly like 
 bejeweled, which you can get a nearly full version of for free online. This game was absolutely 
 pointless, especially at its release when it was offered for $40. THAT, my friends, is a rip-off. 
 The only way I would ever buy this game would be if its price would drop to $1.
  $40??!!!!? Seriously, offer it for like 2 cents. That's how much its worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAtkinson9
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  Do you enjoy puzzle games? Have you ever played Bejeweled? Do you love cute blocky zoo animals? 
 Well, do I have a game for you. Zoo Keeper for the Nintendo DS is a solid puzzle game just like 
 Bejeweled. Line up 3, 4, or 5 of the same animal for points, create combos, and get extra time 
 to keep doing both. You could, seriously, play for hours on one sitting of Normal mode. Tokoton 
 is very similar except you level up slightly differently. If you do not want to sit for hours, 
 try Time Attack mode for fast paced craziness. Quest mode drives me nuts, you have to meet certain 
 conditions to get points and some are pretty hard. Multiplayer mode is a lot of fun, taking time 
 away from your opponent when you make combos and whoever reaches zero first loses. Zoo Keeper is 
 a surprisingly addictive puzzle game and you should give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergioalb64
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Wow, what a surprisingly good puzzle game for the Nintendo DS!
  Zoo Keeper is nothing but Bejeweled with animals. Basically, you swap 'em horizontally or vertically, 
 one next to each other. If you get three or more of the same species in a row, they dissapear, 
 and the animals above fall down. You can, of course, plan ahead and make chains, which is really 
 fun. That's basically it. But man, does it get addictive!
  The game features a whole variety of game modes. You can try Mission Mode, Time Attack, Standard, 
 and others that I can't remember right now ^_^ But the game has great replay value. Multiplayer 
 is there too, single card! There are items in multiplayer and the matches can become quite exciting.
 
  The graphics are good for a puzzle game, but they could've been more varied. The sound is good 
 but could've also been more 'exciting' or frantic, if you will.
  Zoo Keeper is a game that you won't be able to put down for a while. Once you do, you'll move on 
 to something else, and one fine day you'll remember about Zoo Keeper and you'll play it again for 
 hours and hours, just like before. Great puzzle game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Picked this one up used, and haven't had much of a chance to play it yet. The reason for that is, 
 as I was putting together a sandwich, my female counterpart, lured by the cute squelchy sounds, 
 picked up my DS and began to play. That was several days ago. She's still playing. I see no signs 
 of letdown any time soon. She's hooked.
  
  Of course, bejeweled is a fun game, but include lions and tigers and bears (oh my!) and you have 
 what appears to be a home run with a certain crowd. As a puzzler, it doesn't require you exercise 
 your thumbs in anticipation of frenetically-paced action. No, the animals sit there, patiently 
 waiting for you to arrange them, while a time bar slowly dwindles down until you make a three-animal 
 match, causing a bit of time to be added to the bar. 
  The good news is, this is a puzzle game that won't cause your blood pressure to skyrocket. The 
 bad news is, this is a puzzle game that rarely approaches any resemblance to excitement, other 
 than when the timer drops perilously low. Of course, the timed mode adds a bit of excitement, but 
 the basic gameplay is relatively easy to become comfortable with, resulting in an enjoyable but 
 ultimately repetitive game, regardless of the mode you choose.
  That said, it is easy enough on the eyes and ears that you will not even notice that the sun has 
 set, the cats have taken to hunting for their food, and that project you had to get done by the 
 day after tomorrow now needs to get done by today. For a light-hearted and relatively mindless 
 way to pass the time, you could do far worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilihead7
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 9, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Forget all the other reviews on this game. forget your average stereotype of puzzlegames. forget 
 the cutesy case cover and animal zoo type drawings. This game may just quite be one of the best 
 puzzle games out for the DS thus far. It delivers a story (Less than 3 sentences) which i believe 
 most puzzle games need (A crappy story!) and several game modes, which is essential for a killer 
 PG. Plus, the number one ingredient: addictive gameplay. Absolutely Zoo Keeper delivers all this 
 into one great package, and will get you along when you are bored or even occupied. Although the 
 sound is not appreciative at all (Boops and beeps) the graphics are well pixelated with a retro-feel, 
 and the gameplay is easy to learn in under 10 minutes max. Turn on your DS, push Zoo keeper, and 
 play instantly no loading, just play. If you want a great puzzle game that is addicting, challenging, 
 and just plain right for the genre, buy Zoo Keeper, it's worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canuuk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 6, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome puzzle game that makes full use of the DS touch screen. It is also very addictive 
 and made me play for hours. Pretty much the only goal in this game is to line up the mostt animals 
 possible and beat your own score. 
  
  As far as the graphics go, they are simple and colorful. I just love the look of the little pandas, 
 giraffes, crocodiles, monkies, bunnies, elephants and hippos! The gameplay is pretty easy yet becomes 
 quite challenging when you reach the higher levels. This game is possibly one of the best ones 
 for the Nintendo DS.
  
  Overall, a very fun and appealing game which can satisfy every gamer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BluDaSlayer
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  Zoo Keep definitely proved to be an excellent port to the DS from the original Playstation 2 Release. 
 It's a puzzle game addicts dream... portable, affordable and highly addictive. Zoo Keeper plays 
 out exactly like the commonly known PC puzzle game Bejewled and other java/flash-like releases 
 such as Plant Spogg's "Bubblemania/ Popout" but with the added storyline that the player takes 
 on the role of the zoo keeper being ordered by his grumpy boss, the head zoo keeper. The storyline 
 isn't much elaborated until the modes have been cleared, but even then the storyline is pretty 
 much stale and not apparent. 
  
  The basic aim of the game is to "capture" as many animals as possible, an allignment of 3 or more 
 animals of the same specieis doing the job. Unlike Nintendo's Tetris Attack and the rest of its 
 series, a move may only be made if there are alligned pieces. The gameplay is relatively easy but 
 a player who's never experienced the bejewled-type play would take 3-5 minutes getting the hang 
 of how it works but there's a How to Play option at the intro screen menu so the gameplay can be 
 learned from there.. If a player is stuck and can't see any possible moves, the game offers the 
 player a possible 3 hints, 2 initially and boldens the possible matches. When there are no matches 
 on the screen, the board is cleared, replaced and the player is given a score bonus. It is basically 
 a battle with the timer, capturing animals raises the timer and as the levels progress, the speed 
 of the timer does also. The innovative Stylus interaction allows the player to shift the puzzle 
 pieces with a single swipe rather than the tedious movements with the mouse/analong controller. 
 As any puzzle would, Zoo Keeper offers a variety of entertaining game modes and difficulty options 
 (easy, normal, hard) which would keep the player occupied for several hours. 
  
  The normal mode is your basic level-by-level game style with requirable quotas to reach before 
 progressing to the next round (this means capturing a certain number of animals) . The lucky animal 
 which is featured on the upper DS screen is the equivalent to a bonus multiplayer in which that 
 animal is multiplied by 2 for every capture. There is an ending after completing all the levels 
 of normal mode and your player's performance can be indentified by the head zoo keeper's comments 
 after losing.
  
  Tokoton 100 is Zoo Keeper's equivalent to the commonly known Endless Mode. This mode plays out 
 endlessly, the player advancing a level every time 100 captures of a certain animal have been made. 
 The timer does get ridiculously fast after many levels but adds that feeling of pressure and intensity. 
 I personally like this mode best when on the go.
  
  The quest mode plays out to be a mission-based game mode which requires you to capture a certain 
 number of animals without capturing any other kind which is a more challenging mode from the rest 
 if trying to attain a high score is up your alley.
  
  Time Attack mode speaks alot for itself. The player is offered 6 minutes to score as high as possible. 
 Same rules and scoring as would a normal mode except with a time limit. The timer still applies.
 
  
  The final mode is Multiplayer mode which allows you and a friend to duke it out, best on the best, 
 one on one. This mode adds the use of items which are used to benefit yourself or cause problems 
 for your opponent. The heart restores your timer, The bucket alters your opponents animal colours, 
 Binoculars do as they did in the single player modes, and the most powerful piece, the Head Zoo 
 Keeper piece changes one of your opponents animals into a penalising Head Zookeeper piece which 
 affects their timer.\
  
  Overall Zoo Kepper I've found is a game that grows on you. It's excellent for a game to play in 
 between study times, on the train ride to work, or a boring long car trip. The game will have you 
 hooked for hours on end. A non-puzzle player's fondness for the game may not be as much, but it 
 is a game that any player can fall in love with and probably better than the real bejewled! An 
 excellent game at great value.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snoop_trizzle
Rating: 5.6
Date: Feb 13, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  Zoo Keeper... It's basically a rip-off of Bejeweled, but covered in a kid-friendly skin. There 
 is really no story, and the story mode itself is your boss (boss of the zoo, that is) gives you 
 a test (he doesnt really have a reason for administering the test...) . Gameplay is basic, line-up 
 3 animals to deplete them from the table, but more will pile up, and time will speed up. The graphics 
 and sounds are a waste of the DS.
  
  There isnt really much to say.... its basically a flash game ported to the DS for a cheap thrill.... 
 Hard to recommend, but the multiplayer is the only thing that saves this shallow game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LooneyLupeGirL
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jan 31, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  Ok i found this to be one of the worse games i've ever played... It isn't that different then bejeweled 
 and texris mixed together.... The object is to match up zoo animals (block shapes) in a certain 
 amount of time.. Seriously if you just want a good puzzle game then stick with texris or bejeweled.. 
 cause after about 5-10 minutes of playing Zoo Keeper you get bored very easily.... and i found the 
 graphic to stink compared to most DS games..... Lucky for me i bought a used copy so I was able 
 to take it back and buy something else.
  
  So my suggestion would be don't waste your money on this game unless you can find it for under 
 $10 or so...... Just stick with the classics instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first games I bought for my DS. I was not sure what to expect to be honest 
 but after an hour or so of playing I was really starting to enjoy the game and have since out many 
 an hour into it.
  
  Essentially, all you have to do is make a line of three or more animals in the game grid and keep 
 doing that until the level ends. Nothing too hard there then I hear you all say.
  
  There are several game modes, each offering a different style of play and a different outcome. 
 The main mode is going to be 'normal' though so I would start there.
  
  I think that the reason it is actually quite a good fun game to play is because it is so simple. 
 There are no real problems or puzzles to have to figure out and reaction time does not really factor 
 either.
  
  Sound is acceptable for a game of this type and I personally think that the game does look quite 
 nice and maybe a little bit retro.
  
  I woudl advise trying to find a copy of this game and giving it a try, it is actually really good 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packymaster
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty addictive. I enjoy it, and it is very fun considering that it's a puzzle type 
 game. Zoo Keeper is an original concept, and I noticed there was a sequel to the mobile phones. 
 I was happy I got this game, but it doesn't take long at all to beat. Once you're done with this 
 game, you really are done. One thing I like about this game is that someone who doesn't have it 
 can download and versus you. One of the best puzzle games I've ever seen. I have to say that it 
 is very fun, especially when playing with someone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prof_Frink
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Puzzle games are a long standing tradition for portable systems dating back to the original GameBoy. 
 I was one of the Tetris junkies; I am not afraid to admit it. With each no portable I own at least 
 one puzzle title; it is kind of a tradition. Well, the first puzzle title that I have picked up 
 for my DS is Zoo Keeper. From what I have read, this is a DS port of a PC title that you can play 
 online.
  
  The concept to the game is very simple, move one tile with an animal face either up/down or left/right. 
 The animal will only stay in this new position if it completes a set of three or more animals. 
 If it does not, the animal will move back to the starting location. What adds to the complication 
 is that the screen is filled with the different animal heads and you have to locate the matching 
 animal line ups and you have a limited amount of time to locate these animals. You complete a chain 
 and you get a little time back. If you can complete several rows continuously, you obtain a 'chain' 
 and get more time and more points. As you progress in levels, you advance but getting three or 
 more of each animal type, the timer moves faster. This is why I marked the game as hard, because 
 it gets very difficult as the game progresses.
  
  The game is very addictive. I have shown the title to three people now. All three's first reaction 
 was: This is stupid. Five hours later, they were all hooked. This is an older title, so it should 
 only cost you about $20 for a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALeeFan12
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 5, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  This game seemed real pointless and there was nothing to really do on it. I didn't keep the game 
 for a real long time. If you were to get a game for the ds get mario kart ds or buy a psp. If the 
 game had a point it would be a lot better. At least the game was easy to get. I thought that time 
 trials are just boring. It seemed that you could not unlock anything. After this game i got rid 
 of the nintendo ds because i thought there was no good games coming out for it. Good games i got 
 for the ds was super mario ds and wario ware touched. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EASPORTSGC
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Zoo Keeper's concept is so simple- slide the animal to get 3 in a row. But once you get started, 
 it becomes hard to put down. It also looks like a little kids game because of the use of animals 
 and the funny graphics. It looks suitable for a 7 or 8 year old, according to the cover. But hey, 
 I'm past that age and I still think it's great.
  
  There are 6 modes- Those are zoo keeper, which the main idea is simply to advance to the next level 
 (1 complaint- the set high scores are almost impossible to beat for this mode) . You have to get 
 the select number of animals to advance (example- you have to get 3 of every animal in the 1st 
 level) . Tokoton 100, where the idea is to capture 100 animals in total ( I find this stupid and 
 never play it) . Quest, where the idea is complete the task (example- capture 20 lions and not many 
 others-This is probably the best mode in the game) . Time, where you have 6 min. to capture as many 
 animals as possible to get a score. And 2p battle, where you battle ONE person and try to run out 
 their time. Best of 3 games. 
  
  At any time in any game, there is a binocular feature, which will point out all the moves on the 
 board. You start out with 2, but you gain 1 more if you're doing well.
  
  This game is really for anyone. But I guess there just might be a few other better puzzle games... 
 well, I'd have to think about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Review: Zoo Keeper
  
  Zoo Keeper started life out as a free online puzzle game you can try it out here if you like, and 
 now it comes to you Nintendo DS, but is this game even worth you time or money on the Nintendo 
 DS
  
  Story:
  You are a new zoo keeper at a zoo, but some of the animals have gotten out and now it is up to 
 you to catch the animals in a puzzle game manor
  
  Graphics:
  Well if you followed the link to the free online version, and look at the screen shots I have provided 
 you will defiantly notice the difference, the DS Version has a cleaner look, the animals look a 
 ton better with their cube look than in the online version, not to mention it is easier to tell 
 what you need to catch in order to level up, and the overall look is superior on the DS. Still 
 the graphics will not be setting the benchmark for the system. The DS is a system that can handle 
 3d graphics mind you.
  
  Music:
  Oh my god some one please stop me before I go off, this music is some of the worst in any game 
 since the Atari days, not to mention that the voices used in the game is absolutely annoying, but 
 the sounds are not too bad and are acceptable, but really the only good feature here is that you 
 can turn off all of it in the options
  
  Control:
  Control is simple and fun like any good puzzle game should be and unlike the free online flash 
 versions the control is enhanced ten fold because of the stylus, because the stylus makes the game 
 all that much easier to access and play.
  
  Game play:
  As with the control, the game play is simple and catchy and you will find yourself playing at any 
 and all times even if you don't feel like playing any games, like I find myself doing all of the 
 time, in fact the game is so catchy my mom tried the game and immediately ran out and bought herself 
 a copy (that is right my mom has her own DS) . In order to catch an animal all you need to do is 
 line up three or more of them in a horizontal or vertical row. Simple right but you got to do it 
 before time runs out or it is game over. What even adds more to the game play is that you can have 
 multiplayer matches with only one copy of Zoo Keeper, and it should be noted that there is no multiplayer 
 in the free version.
  
  Design:
  Now you are probably wondering about what, other than multiplayer does the DS version of Zoo Keeper 
 offer, well there are 4 different game modes that you can play including Normal Mode, which is 
 the original version of the game, Tokoton, where you can only level up after catching 100 of any 
 creature, Quest Mode, where you must complete a set of tasks set before you by your boss, and the 
 Timed mode where you catch as many creatures as you can in 6 minutes.
  
  Fully addictive and engaging if you own a DS this is a must buy at only $20, it is well worth the 
 price tag and then some, I can not remember the last time I have been absolutely engrossed and 
 obsessed with a game, do your self a favor and check this one out
  
  Zoo Keeper DS:
  Pros:
  Ok Graphics
  Addictive fun
  Better look than online version
  Well worthy of a 12 
 in fun factor
  Awesome Multiplayer
  
  Cons:
  Awful Music
  Awful sound
  Graphics could have been better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTZ2k3
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 16, 2005 12:01 am PT
Review:  During the hype of the Nintendo DS, with flagship 3D titles like Mario DS, Ridge Racer, and Madden 
 recieveing the most attention, a simple, entertaining, and addicting game snuck under the radar 
 and onto the shelves of game retailers. Touting excellent action-based puzzle action, but an overly 
 high price tag of $4, Ignition's Zoo Keeper, seemed doomed to the bargain bin. And that trip may 
 have been the best thing to happen to gamers in a long time. With it's new $15-$20 price tag at 
 many retailers, Zoo Keeper is one of the DS's best steals, and a perfect game for long trips or 
 short commutes. Anyone who loves a good fast-paced puzzler like Bejewelled would do well to pick 
 this game up while you still can.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Zoo Keeper is a Bejewelled clone, make no doubt about it, but it's a good one. The game involves 
 sliding animal icons in a 8x8 grid, trying to line up 3 or more of the same kind and jump starting 
 combos. At first glance, the game seems totally unoriginal and a cheap port to the system. However, 
 the stylus control turns this game from a cheap port to a completely addicitive game. The stylus 
 allows for extremely fluid manipulation of the animals on the lower screen, far faster than a D-pad 
 and dare I say even better than with a mouse. The game also has many subtle additions. Each round 
 has a special animal which gives double points. These points are needed to add time onto the constantly 
 dwindling timer. The best way to score points is to combo, and thanks to an excellent and rewarding 
 combo system, Zoo Keeper delivers. What makes the system so excellent? Unlike in many puzzle games, 
 the player is given a one second window after a group is removed to remove anothe group. Do it 
 and a multiplier begins to build. Stringing together massive combos and watching you poitns skyrocket 
 is a rush every time. The ultimate goal of each level is to meet a certain quota of animals, moving 
 you to the next level and increasing the point values and game speed. Combine the excellent mechanics 
 with four game modes - Time Trial (6 minutes to get top score) , Normal (meet quotas to progress) , 
 Tokoton (capture 100 of an animal to progress) , and Challenge (perform a number of skill based 
 tests) - as well as single-card multiplayer, and you have yourself one elegantly simple and addictive 
 gameplay package.
  
  Graphics/Sound: 7/6
  The word "simple" can also describe the game's graphics. The sprites do have an attractive and 
 stylish look to them, and your special animal is shown animated on the top screen (which is sadly 
 used for only that and score keeping in the game) . The graphics work well for this game, and their 
 basic nature does not detract from the experience. The sound in Zoo Keeper is passable. One aspect 
 done particularly well is the escalating pitch of sounds when you begin to string together a combo. 
 The sound matches perfectly wirh your rising points and really adds to the excitement of combos. 
 The music, however, is very simple and irritating, and is best left off for longer sessions of 
 play (or if others are around. They'll kill you.)
  
  Value: 9
  For $15, the game has an amazing ammount of longevity, especially if you love to constantly best 
 your own high scores. There is an unlockable "Super Hard" difficulty, earned by placing 1st in 
 each mode, but most of the replay is self motivated. However, the addictive nature of the gameplay 
 makes it perfect to boot up on trips, even if its only for one or two time rial runs. I even found 
 myself getting in a round or two before bed some nights. Single-card multiplayer also adds to the 
 value, though the random nature of the gameplay can make matches fluctuate from long struggles 
 to several second pummelings. For such a low price, however, the game is more than worth it.
  
  Verdict:
  Overlooked by many DS gamers, Zoo Keeper is an excellent puzzler that is sure to 
 please anyone looking for an addictive diversion and willing to give the game a try. It's accesible 
 stylus control makes it ideal for so-called "non-gamers," but its addictive qualities make it last 
 for veterans as well. Anyone who can get a copy of this game for $20 or under should jump at the 
 chance. A huge sleeper for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 8:17 am PT
Review:  The graphics are very basic. The game looks pretty good with its slick menus and overall antialiased 
 look. But this doesn't meen the graphics are great. They do the job, nothing more.
  
  The sounds in ZK is like in any other puzzler. The sound effects are basic, and the music is brain 
 damaging.
  
  Zoo Keeper is a very basic puzzle game in many terms, but playing with the stylus works very well. 
 The game is extremely easy to get into, very accessible, though very hard to let go of. It's very 
 entertaining and will keep you playing for many, many hours. There are several game modes like 
 Zoo Keeper, Time Attack, Tokomana!?, quest, and 2 player battle. Everyone features high score lists 
 of course (though I don't know about the 2P battle) , and they are all very entertaining. It's veird, 
 but this is maybe the DS game I've played most of them all! It's very good and you should pick 
 it up if you have a slightest interest in puzzle games.
  
  +
  Very addictive and hard to put down. Smooth graphics. Every game mode is good. You can pick it 
 up anytime you want. You use the stylus, and it works very well.
  
  -
  No unlockable extras except a harder difficuly level. It's a puzzler very simular to the other 
 ones out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creapy_team
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 7, 2005 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Zoo Keeper. A puzzle game of the type we all played sometime in life, mostly free on teh internet. 
 Why then should you get it on your DS? Because this is the kind of game that kicks major ass with 
 the stylus. You are a zoo keeper that has to keep the animals from going bananas. Basically you 
 draw animals from place to place making three or more of the same animal in a row. Combos gives 
 more score. And when we're talking score I'm talking importend matter. This game is ALL about make 
 big scores for scoreboard. There are 5 gameplay modes which one is a 2-Player Single-cart mode 
 that is good fun for some time, but you'll play most of your time on single-player modes. There's 
 Normal mode where you have to first have to catch 3 animals of every sort to level up, then 4 and 
 5 and so on. And there's... no I won't spoil your day. Found out yourself. But I can say this game 
 is VERY addictive. You can't stop play the game. Believe me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vissuluth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2005 8:05 am PT
Review:  Aquest joc mha enganxat molt, s sencill, per ja vaig voler agafar-lo de seguida que em vaig 
 comprar la DS.
  El joc no sacaba, per el repte est en superar tots els records de puntuaci per poder aconseguir 
 un nou nivell de dificultat que queda desbloquejat en quan ho fas.
  Jo ja he fet tots els records, que no es fcil. i ara ja no em queda cap alicient, per s molt 
 vicis i a vegades lhe tornat a jugar per matar el cuquet.
  Magrada molt tot, els grfics molt adients, el so molt adient, i el sistema de joc fabuls, ja 
 no parlem de jugar amb el punter, que s una passada. No t els millors grfics ni el millor joc, 
 per li posaria un 10 en quan a la idonietat de totes les caracterstiques, s quasi un 10 en el 
 tema puzzle.
  Estic molt content dhaver-mel comprat, em vaig comprar la DS per a jugar a jocs aix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mik19
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 6, 2005 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-6 There wasn't really much to do but touch the screen, and solve puzzles.
  But it was good for make time fly. Cause u can't get ur eyes of of it. The game was also way to 
 easy.
  
  Graphics-7 The graphics were simple, and the animals looked kinda too square.
  But they were clear and clean. There were no glitches in them.
  
  Sound-8 there were people 
 speaking in the background, unlike some other games.
  The sound was great.
  
  Value- 8 This game was worth the money cause u can use it for long airplane trips. Exc.
  
  
 Reviewers Tilt- I really enjoyed this game because it didn't have any gitches, good sound, and 
 boring, but long lasting, game play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixlr8evo8
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 26, 2005 7:07 am PT
Review:  This game for those who haven't discovered yet, is basically Bejeweled for the cell phone and PC 
 using the touch screen, and replacing the Jewels with Zoo Animals. By chaning in, the game claims 
 that when you line up 3 or more animals in a row, they are "captured," giving the player the assumption 
 that the escaped. This game is pretty decent in most elements, but there is no real substance to 
 the game, and that sort of just makes it an average puzzle game.
  
  Gameplay (8/10) - Although the gameplay is done really nicely using both the touchscreen and the 
 d-pad and buttons, its been done before, showing no real innovation. Anyone could just get a Motorola 
 V400 and have the game ready to go already. Responce is better than expected, so I give the game 
 props on that, and they attempt to make the game more interesting by having multiple modes, including 
 a quest mode, and a mode where if you line up 100 of a certain zoo animal, you go to the next level. 
 There are three levels of difficulty, for those never experience Bejeweled in the past, or for 
 those who have mastered the cell phone or PC game. There is wireless multiplayer, but only for 
 two people, and the framerate is good with that. But other than that, nothing really new to define 
 the puzzle genre here.
  
  Graphics (6/10) - Nothing great. The few animations in this game are nothing to be remembered, 
 and although the colors are bright and vivid, not much going on. With the amazing graphical potentials 
 of the Nintendo DS, there was nothing that made it stand out from just another "Tetris" type ripoff 
 (I realize this is no Tetris in anyway, just giving trying to explain what people think when they 
 hear puzzle game) . As said before, good framerate, but its hard to make it bad when nothing is 
 going on. There are some character models in the game, a janitor, and a bitter zoo owner, but yea, 
 that's it, and they really don't do much.
  
  Sound (8/10) - Clear, crisp, interesting. No real complaints here except the lack of variety. After 
 a while the same songs get really repetivtive and start get on your nerves, especially because 
 sometimes a single game can last over an hour, if you're really good, so that's one thing that 
 I can really nit pick in this department.
  
  Value (9/10) - Although it has no substance, its is an incredibly fun and addictive game. i personally 
 got bored with it after two days, but others might find it more exciting. It has wireless multiplayer, 
 a time attack, a normal mode, and a mode as said before where you can get 100 of a single animal 
 to get to the next level. So there really is plenty to do, but all in all, each mode is done in 
 exactly the same manner, so I got bored with it. It is a great Value in the sense that is the only 
 budget priced DS game on the market right now, so at $19.99 it is a pretty good deal, but if this 
 were a full priced game, I would more discourage it than recommend it.
  
  All in all, its good for what you pay for, but if you are looking for a fun puzzle games that has 
 all the elements of a great game, as well as a great puzzle game, go with Meteos. Meteos in my 
 opinion redefines the genre as does its counter-part Lumines for the PSP. This game does not compare 
 with these "hardcore" puzzle games, but it is a fun game for all ages that isn't too difficult, 
 but if you want it to be, can be very challenging. This game is very simple, and that's why it 
 was probably so successful as Bejeweled for the cell phone and PC, but as a DS game, its just okay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BuryMe
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Bejeweled is probably the most addictive game I've ever played in my life. Weather it was the beautiful 
 music or the simplicity of the game I'll never know. All I know is that when I found out that my 
 favourite puzzle game came to the DS I was thrilled. I was also disapointed.
  
  At first glance, Zoo Keeper come off as a kiddy game. All you do is swap animal heads to make rowas 
 of 3 or more. This is all you do in bejeweled. Unfortunately my favourite parts of the game were 
 lost in thes version.
  
  In the original game, you had no time limit. The game ended when there were no more moves left. 
 In Zoo Keeper, the game gives you bonus points when you run out of moves, and ends when you run 
 out of time. The time limit is really annoying.
  
  Also, when you are playing in the classic mode, you change levels far too often. As soon as you've 
 set up a huge chain combo, the level changes. It seems to happen about every 20 moves. It should 
 take atleast twice as long to complete a level.
  
  Quest mode is a nice change of pace, but it is full of problems.
  In it, you have to complete 
 some tasks like capture 20 lions and catch as few other animals as possible. So you see your screen, 
 and you get really frustrated because there are no possible moves with lions! You can just say 
 good bye to your score. The other puzzels have the same type of problem.
  
  The sound and graphics are awful. The graphics are very blocky (the animations on the top screen) 
 and the music is pitiful.
  
  I would only expect to hear this king of music on a Gameboy Colour, but not a DS. It is very repetitive 
 and sounds muffeled and scratchy.
  
  If you already have Bejeweled on your cell or PC, just skipp Zoo Keeper. You have a much better 
 version of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooselover99
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 3, 2005 3:26 am PT
Review:  I enjoy this game and I try everyday to beat my top scores in every one of the different challenges. 
 I find the mission challenge extremely hard but fun.
  
  The graphics are good and you can shut off the sound of the game if listening to it annoys.
  
 
  I recommend this game to anyone who enjoys puzzle games. It does not disappoint.
  
  I find myself playing the time attack more than anything else. Some times I really suck and the 
 next few times I am beating my high score. That is the game I am most addicted to. I do play Zoo 
 Keeper everyday because I can't help myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fimbrethil
Rating: 9
Date: May 13, 2005 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Don't let the graphics fool you. Don't be turned down by the limited use of the top screen. This 
 is an intuitive game that's incredibly easy to pick up and one that you will still play several 
 years from now. Not every day though.
  
  Five modes to choose from. All with the same simple base, to switch two animals so that three line 
 up and are caught. The touch screen control is amazing. Bottom screen: On the left your time on 
 the right your binoculars for tips. Top screen: Lucky animal that counts double, the level, the 
 score and the number of animals to collect in order to reach the next level.
  
  First of the modes is regular, or normal mode that is nothing strange to be called: 'Zoo Keeper'. 
 The number of animals to catch increases, starting of with 3, which is one move. In the first several 
 levels, there are seven animals: the stylish Giraffe, the naive Hippo, the dreamy Elephant, the 
 nomadic Alligator, the glutton Lion, the rich Panda and the short-tempered Monkey. Later, the ambitious 
 Rabbit is added to your Zoo's collection.
  The second mode is Tokoton 100. Here, you have to collect 100 of each animal to complete the level, 
 this is more difficult but more points are to be earned. And that's what it's all about, to react 
 the highest records and become number one in the rankings.
  Third up is Quest mode, which is, logically, a quest. This is where you'll get ten assignments, 
 that you have to complete as good as possible. Catch 20 Lions, 15 more than the other, Pandas or 
 Giraffes. All vertical lines, drop a special panel to the bottom, that sort of challenges. Some 
 of them are pretty difficult, and it is really a mistake that the success is for a large part based 
 on sheer luck, not on your own skills. 
  Last one of the single player modes is Time Attack. You have six minutes to catch as many animals 
 as humanly possible, with normal rules. For these modes are three difficulties available.
  
  Then there's the multi player battle. When you catch animals, the other player's time decreases. 
 You can confuse each other by making all colours disappear or other nifty tricks, that come falling 
 down in special panels, if you are lucky enough. Nice mode, for when you both are really bored. 
 
  The graphics are luckily kept simple. Animations of the lucky animal are fun to watch, but your 
 eyes will be focussed on the bottom screen, searching for combinations and sliding your stylus 
 over the screen. 
  The sound is just right for a game like this. Somewhat annoying melodies that spin in your head 
 all day, completed with satisfying sounds when making combos. In addition, a female voice guides 
 you through several options.
  
  The value is easy, this is a game for everyone. These graphics and gameplay could cheer up any 
 bored or angry person, whatever age. Don't think of it as childish or anything, see it as just 
 plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowPik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2005 1:26 am PT
Review:  Let's face it. It's hard to play your Ds with the cruddy games out right now. I had played the 
 MP hunters demo so many times it was just boring now. If this describes you then Zoo Keeper is 
 just the game. It won't make you want to buy a Ds, but you can still have a good time with it. 
 
  Let's start off with the graphics. You might look at them in fear. But they actually help the gameplay. 
 The colorful animals give the game the light hearted feeling. They might not compete with other 
 games like Lumines, but they work great. 
  The sound and music can get anoying. One of the games only faults. Like the graphics though they 
 just help the games feel. 
  The Gameplay is nothing new. In fact the game is availible online for free. However the touch screen 
 adds a whole new demension to the game. If it wasn't for the graphics and sound I would recommend 
 this title. 
  Zoo Keeper offers many different modes of play. The best is Time Attack. It lets you play for 6 
 minutes, just the right amount of time to keep the game fresh. The other modes aren't anything 
 big. 
  The reason I love this game so much is because it's not your typical game where you obsess over 
 it for a week then forget about it. In fact you will hardly obsess at all. Six minutes here and 
 there will more than satisfy your touch screen craving. The game gets better as you play it more 
 and more. 
  I recommend this game to any Ds owner who is not playing SM64 all the time. That's most of us. 
 For 20 bucks at GameStop this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leapfrog91
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Zoo Keeper is a hard game to quantify - review scores don't seem to mean much for this game. Luckily, 
 purchasing this game is an easy enough decision. If you've ever played Bejeweled (and who hasn't?) 
 and you wouldn't mind dishing out $20 for an expanded, multiplayer, portable and touch-screen version, 
 then here's your chance.
  
  The game is delightfully simple - a fact that rightly or wrongly seems to prevent this game from 
 achieving a higher score. It is ridiculous to explain the gameplay here; playing the game in its 
 Flash form - or at least its predecessor, Bejeweled by PopCap - should be a prerequisite for purchase. 
 It is important to note that although Zoo Keeper on the DS offers up a number of different modes, 
 none are especially more entertaining than the original.
  
  So how does the original gameplay translate to the DS? Its a perfect match. The art is simple enough, 
 but visually entertaining and cleanly displayed. The dual screens are used with little innovation, 
 but the gameplay involved does not easily lend itself to two screens. The touch-screen controls 
 are another manner entirely; after playing Zoo Keeper on the DS, it's hard to imagine controlling 
 the game with a D-pad or analog stick. The stylus is simply a natural fit.
  
  It's common knowledge that the Bejeweled formula works, and it should come as no surprise that 
 it is a great candidate for portability. Its most prominent feature - the ability to hook gamers 
 and non-gamers alike for hours on end - is very handy for those lengthy flights or other long waits 
 when time-wasting is key. And, like any great puzzle game, you'll have a blast earning a high score 
 along the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunarmanx
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 6, 2005 2:42 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that i am not a very big fan of puzzle games but this one was pretty good
 
  Story: Well the story is like so. 
  The animal at the zoo were fed up with the way the head zoo keeper was treating them, so they started 
 a riot. And it's up to you to bring order back to the zoo.
  Controls: Very simple, just the touch screen. You touch the animal, and slide across to switch 
 it with another.
  The game is really fun for a while until you have been playing it a long time then you basically 
 just do the same thing over an over again. There are five different modes,
  Noraml-just as the name says
  tokoton-get a hundred of an animal to pass
  quest-go through 
 ten stages of different quests
  time attack- you have 6 minutes to get as high of a score as possible
  multi-play with 1 friend
 
  Graphics: There cartoony but still really clear and cool.
  Sound: It has really catchy tunes in this game, it's very clear too. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainpikpik
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 1, 2005 7:37 pm PT
Review:  ZOO KEEPER!!!! not the game that springs 2 mind when people mention DS but for me zoo keeper is 
 the most underated DS game ever ok ill admit the graphics are notthe best on the DS but they do 
 the job 
  single player is a enjoyable affair but the heart of zookeeper lys in the 2 player battle mode 
 gameplay wise it is great for fans of puzzle games and for not so fans of puzzlers the core of 
 the game is bascic line 3 animals togrther to make them dissapear with a special animal displayed 
 on the top screen which awards double points 
  controls easy with the stlus simply touch an animal and another animal above or below or just sise 
 to side to make them switch places 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soul_motor
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 16, 2005 5:02 am PT
Review:  This is by far one of the better games I've played so far on the DS. The only problem is that is 
 technically a port of an older computer game. The only major flaw is the $40 price point for it. 
 If this were an action/ adventure type of game, it would be worth it. Alas, it's a puzzle game. 
 Would you pay that much for Tetris? 
  Speaking of Tetris, this game is also simple to pick up and go. It doesn't take long to figure 
 out what it is you are doing. It's also very addictive. It isn't too hard to play for half an hour 
 at a time just to see what kind of score you can get.
  The graphics are standard blocky animals, and the sound can get repetitive, but the game itself 
 is pretty darn good. Do yourself a favor and pick this one up used if you can find it, or wait 
 for the price to drop in half. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spydawebz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2005 12:35 am PT
Review:  Puzzle games are in a lull today. You dont see to many great puzzle games come out. Part of that 
 reason is that most of the fresh and new ideas are just not any good, and people arent sticking 
 to the classic formula. Well, Zoo Keeper sticks to that classic formula, and with the twist of 
 the DSs touch screen, it makes it an instant winner.
  
  Zoo Keeper is your basic puzzle game. The story is simple. You are a Zoo Keeper in a zoo run by 
 a tyrant of a director. The animals revolt, and escape from their cages. Your job? Well, its to 
 round them up and put them back of course. You will get a screen filled to the brim with different 
 kids of animals. Your job is to match 3 in a row to round them up. You do this by simply using 
 the stylus to switch two animals between their spaces. You can only move an animal one space, and 
 in order to move it the move must make a row of 3 so you will capture them. Sounds easy right? 
 Its not as easy as it sounds. You of course have a time meter which runs down. Every capture you 
 make, gives you a little time back. In most of the modes, including the regular mode, you have 
 a quota of how many of each animal to catch to go up a level. Once you do that, your level goes 
 up, time goes faster, and the quota usually will go up. Once time starts going a little faster, 
 and you get a little more nervous, it gets harder and harder to find a capture match. Each level 
 will also feature an animal on the upper screen. This is the lucky animal. For each capture you 
 make of this animal, you will get double points and rewarded with an animation that looks like 
 you just game the animal a prostate exam. The game features a few different modes, but for the 
 most part they are all pretty much the same. There is Tokoton 100, which has a quota to catch 100 
 of any one animal to go up a level. There is also Time Attack, which gives you 6 minutes to get 
 the highest score possible. Then there is quest, which gives you crazy quotas and rules to attempt 
 to gain points. They are all kind of the same, but provide enough variety to keep you coming back 
 for more.
  
  The graphics and style of the game is cool and unique. All the animals are blocky, but in a purposeful 
 and smooth way. Its very cartoony, but all in all is just nice to look at. Its easy to tell the 
 difference between the animals as they are all very unique and colorful. There are a few little 
 things, that while not amazing, do make the game a little cooler. When you are the last animal 
 in the quota you will visibly notice the animals face turn angry. This is also often the hardest 
 animal to capture, as they are usually spread far apart.
  
  The sound is basic, and probably the worst part of the game. Its all very monotone, and although 
 it kind of fits the game, it would be a little nicer if the music was better. 
  
  Over all this is a solid and addictive puzzle game that anyone can enjoy. For the price you will 
 get hours of fun, and the replay value is very high. Ever since I got the DS Ive been addicted 
 to this game. I recommend this game to anyone who enjoys are a good puzzle game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reptile711
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2005 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Zoo keeper is a good game overall. It stay consistent with its plot... which there really is none 
 because it's a puzzle game. When I say plot, I don't mean story or script. It's whole concept of 
 a puzzle game is inspiring and actually very fun. The sheer simplicity doesn't attract much people 
 because people want more power. More graphics and colors. As long as it looks good, that person 
 is fine with it right? Wrong. This game proves that you can have fun even if it's not the best 
 looking game. I played this game and was totally into it. Of course, I needed to fiddle with it 
 to get used to it for about 30 minutes, but the complexity and puzzle arrangement is interestingly 
 consistent with the dual screens and gameplay. Sorta like a mix match tetris. It's a really fun 
 game to play and it's worth the money you spend on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artman420
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 6, 2005 10:53 am PT
Review:  Don't let the bad graphics fool you, this is a great, addictive game, wrapped up in a simple package 
 
  
  The premise is simple. There's a pallet of animal faces that you use the stylus to move one space 
 up, down, left, or right, in order to get 3 of the same type of face in a line. You get points, 
 and extra time added on to the timer. If the timer reaches zero, it's game over. You get bonus 
 points for having rows of more than three, making many matches quickly or by making matches of 
 the randomly chosen "lucky animal" which gives you bonus points. The game has a number of different 
 modes; there's normal mode, in which you just play until the timer runs out while the game gets 
 progrssively harder. There's Tokoton 100, where you try to get 100 matches of each animal type. 
 There's timed mode, where you have six minutes to get as many matches as possible. Finally, there's 
 quest mode, where there are ten different "quests" where each has a different objective. With all 
 these modes there are different skill levels that help mix things up a bit. 
  
  The graphics are not much to look at. Very colorful, cheerful animations, but not much else. It 
 runs well, but could easily have been done on the GBA. But the GBA didn't have a touch screen, 
 and the stylus is perfect for this game. The game itself is based off the internet version, which 
 in turn is modeled off of the popular online game, Bejeweled. Like I said, nothing to impressive 
 in the visual department. 
  
  The sound is about on the same level as the graphics. The music and sound effects all consist of 
 "Beeps" and "Boops" and hasn't been changed much from the internet. But the tunes are very catchy, 
 and even though I didn't think much of them at first, I've caught myself humming them all too many 
 times. 
  
  It's difficult to make a game this simple sound fun by writing about it, but it's insanely addictive. 
 When I first bought it a few days ago, I sat down to play it for five minutes, two hours later, 
 I was still playing. This game is so loaded with replay value, it just boggles the mind. I highly 
 recommend it to anyone who likes puzzle games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koomaster
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 3, 2005 11:54 pm PT
Review:  
  Let's get this price issue out of the way. This game is going to make you feel ripped off no matter 
 how much you like it. It retails for anywhere from $34.99 - $39.99 which is pretty high price to 
 pay for a DS game right around now (when Mario 64 is just $29.99) . So if you feel like waiting 
 for this to go down in price, it would be well advised.
  
  Now you probably think I hate the game after that harsh bit of reality. But the fact is, it's a 
 wonderful little game. It's a simple enough game to learn, but a much harder beast to master - 
 as is often the case with puzzle games! Luckily the game gives you a limited number of hints per 
 round that you can use at any time to help you in a tight spot!
  
  For the most part, all you're doing is moving animals around a grid trying to match up 3 or more 
 in horizontal or vertical rows. While this in itself exhibits a Tetris like zen, the game throws 
 curveballs at you with actual tasks to complete; and a timer on your tail.
  
  Depending on what mode you play, you're required to do different things....
  
  Normal: This 
 is the simplest mode where the game just asks you to match a certain number of animals of each 
 kind before you can move to the next level.
  
  Tokoton 100: This is my favorite mode, where everytime you match up 100 of a certain type of animal 
 you level up. It takes a long time as you might imagine to go from the first to the second level. 
 But then, you should have most animals matched close to 100 so you'll level up quickly for a bit, 
 and then your animals matches should be pretty low. It's a more leisurely mode, but still awfully 
 fun!
  
  Time Attack: This ramps up the difficulty a bit as you are matching up animals with a 6 minute 
 time limit. Great to compete against anyone you share the DS with to see who can get the maximum 
 score.
  
  Quest Mode: This is the hardest of them all in which the Zoo Curator asks you to do strange tasks 
 - such as match 15 more pandas than giraffes, or match one set of each animal without duplicating 
 any - and continues this way for ten levels with the Zoo Curator doling out or deducting points 
 like a madman the entire way. "Where's your Luck? Decreased by 75%. Decreased by 400 points!"
 
  
  There is also a 2 player battle mode which makes use of the DS's feature of cart-sharing. So if 
 you meet up with a friend who has a DS - you only need one cart of Zoo Keeper to play this mode. 
 In this mode you're simply matching up animals as fast as possible to keep your timer from running 
 out before your friend's timer does.
  
  The mode features certain items that will obviously help you out and hinder your friend. It's a 
 very fun addition and is really amusing at how competitive it can become!
  
  The game itself is very cutely styled and overall the theme works nice throughout the game. From 
 the multi-colored animals, to the gruff Curator berating you for being a failure; everything seems 
 to fit nicely together in this rough and tumble world of being a Zoo Keeper.
  
  The sound is another thing. It's grating at times - like really grating. Like turn it off and wear 
 some earphones with your favorite CD grating. The music is cutesy and sometimes catchy as well; 
 but not anything to write home about - you won't be seeing this as a top selling CD anytime soon!
 
  
  Other than the sound though, this is an all around solid game that's surprisingly fun and addicting 
 to play. If you can overlook the pricetag (just put it in the back of your mind.... no, further 
 back... repress it down.... there you go) then you should get a kick out of this game and be picking 
 it up to play all the time.
  
  PS - I recommend listening to Green Day while playing! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burtlo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 26, 2005 11:41 pm PT
Review:  This game reminded me of the days of yore, when the only form of entertainment on my Gameboy was 
 Tetris. Bejewled, an interesting variation in recent years in puzzle games, requires the players 
 to rotate, almost like a revolving door, animal pairs into rows or columns of three or more. Those 
 matched animals are removed from the board, and more animals fall in from the top. Allowing you 
 to continue to get those animals in line.
  
  Zoo Keeper takes that basic premise and really does it well. The stylus allows you unbelievably 
 smooth and pleasureable control over the revolving of the animals in a variety of games. These 
 different modes will pit you against a constantly running clock (unlike the match making clock) , 
 getting 100s of animals, or a standard attack mode with a particular animal yielding a higher bonus. 
 Included as well is the mission mode, where you complete 10 jobs for the slavedriving, non-friendly 
 (to put it lightly) zoo master. These missions challenge your ability to: get only one animal type; 
 getting one of each animal; get only columns; get a special block to the bottom; raise the time 
 bar; a number of chains (when you make a match and then another is made from the new animals moving 
 into place) .
  
  Zoo Keeper even grants you the ability to play against another player with the single cartridge. 
 However, the multiplayer is limited to an all out attack against the opponent's timer. Leading 
 to very quickly won matches that can continue effortessly (think tic-tac-toe) . 
  
  Sound is nearly unmentionable and should be muted or ignored shortly after purchasing. Though, 
 the voice recordings for menus and for loading a board with no moves is of good quality, it's used 
 sparingly throughout the game.
  
  Price is a concern. MSRP is currently $39.99 (Jan. 21, 2005) , however I found a mall chain that 
 sold it for $34.99 (rebate hidden at the register, that or he was doing me a favor) .
  
  All in all, what really makes the game is the smooth control, the cute graphics, and the variety 
 of modes. If the multiplayer wasn't so short, I would have said, it was probably a must in these 
 early days of wireless DS. It's not and so, I would recommend this game to those that have played 
 this game before on the computer, pda, or phone and to those that are in need of a really good 
 solid mentally challenging game for your DS.
  
  It's ultimately not the Tetris for Gameboy, but it is still quite a bit of fun to get those animals 
 in line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20257018376039478582138518186741-curiosgeorge885
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Zoo Keeper is the brand new game from ignition, and it is the first game that the company has made 
 for the DS. 
  
  Zoo Keeper is, respectibly, bejeweled with zoo animals instead of jewels. But the game most definitely 
 isn't just a crappy remake of bejeweled, it just takes bejeweled's addictive yet simple formula 
 and makes a retail priced game out of it. But for some, it's not worth the high price tag. 
  
  The game is just like, once again, bejeweled. You have to get 3 animals in a row to "capture" 
 them on a 8x8 grid. This game is simple, and requires little strategy to level up. But that's why 
 Ignition made a "Quest" mode, which requires lots of strategy, and every move counts. For example, 
 you have to capture 15 more pandas than giraffes, or capture 20 links. A link in Zoo Keeper is 
 when a row of animals is captured, and then when 3 more animals come down to take their place, 
 another row of animals is automatically captured. Things like this add extra challenge to the bejeweled 
 formula. I, and probobaly you would've expected it to be easy since it may be targeted to a younger 
 audience. But that's not true. This is a game that everyone can probobaly get hooked on after a 
 5-minute play. The only thing standing between you and purchasing the game is it's dissapointingly 
 high price tag.
  
  The graphics in the game are blocky, but are clearly meant to be blocky to add a nice charm to 
 the game. They are colourful and delightful, even if the game lacks animation. But graphics don't 
 really matter in a game like this. The only technical problem is the sound. The game has some good, 
 upbeat music to it, but it lacks variety in the music. There is only around 3 different songs in 
 the whole game. There's the quest mode song, the song that's in every other mode, and the main 
 menu song. These 3 songs are eerily catchy and after aroun 20 minutes, they get on your nerves. 
 You will soon enough want to just turn the music off in the options menu, but the dissapointing 
 thing is that there's no music to compliment the upbeat nature. If only they could have just made 
 a few more tracks.
  
  Overall, a game like this is very easy to recommend to anyone because of it's solid, highly addictive 
 fun. But the dissapointment is the unreasonably high price tag, going at $39.99 (american) . This 
 will turn some people off, but if you are starved for a new DS game, you should immediately consider 
 purchasing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snoopy82
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 23, 2005 10:20 pm PT
Review:  ( Note: This game is based off the game Bejeweled.)
  
  When I first heard about Zoo Keeper being released I had the idea that the game would be about 
 looking after a zoo in a sims kinda way, as the title suggests. After I purchased Mario64 (great 
 game) i started looking for a game that had that tetris quality that i had with my original game 
 boy, those who have played tetris (who didn't?) will know that it was a perfect game for the game 
 boy. 1. It was very addictive. 2. You could play it for as little or as long as you wanted. 3. 
 Practically everyone from all walks of life could get into it.
  
  And so i stumbled across the Zoo Keeper forums to see what this game was all about, in one post 
 i found a link to a flash version (free to play) of one of the modes in the game. Well... about 
 an hour or so of playing that, I just fell in love with it, I got the same feeling i got from those 
 old game boy days, and i knew that this would be my next DS puchase. (Note: If i hadn't come across 
 that Flash game i doubt i would have even considered a purchase) Here is the link - http://www. ebaumsworld. com/zookeeper. html
 
  
  That will give you a good idea of what this game is all about, but wait!... Why would someone want 
 to buy a game when they could just play it for free??? Well... That is going to be up to you... 
 In the DS version you use the stylus to switch the animals around, the top screen has an animated 
 picture of the animal that will give you double points.. There are 5 game modes incuding multiplayer 
 (2 Player) that can be shared from one game cart. Plus many improvements, and the fact that you 
 can play it on the move.
  
  Game Play = 9 = Very Addictive, Good for short/long sessions.
  Graphics = 7 = Simple Cartoon 
 like, Works well, Nothing stunning.
  Sound = 5 = Not the best sound, but the style suits this game.
  Value = 8 = You will get your 
 moneys worth, Great replay factor
  Tilt = 9 = Heh, I just love playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripSkyWay
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2005 4:58 am PT
Review:  Zoo Keeper improves on the formula laid out by Bejewelled. Though in many ways very similar to 
 the shockwave game, the decision in Zoo Keeper to reward you for clearing the board of possible 
 moves - rather than the curious way Bejewelled penalised you - improves the game vastly.
  
  Time attack particularly is great high score challenge that had me and my girlfriend battling out 
 for weeks, until we realised you can play "co-op" zoo keeper by using the spare stylus in the DS 
 box.
  
  Surpassing its inspiration, Zoo Keeper is a great game thats spent many hours in my DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric161226
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 21, 2005 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Zoo Keeper is a puzzle game that was inspired by the classic flash game Bejeweled, in which the 
 object is to match three animals of the same species in a row. This game was made for the DS and 
 is controlled perfectly with the touch screen. 
  
  The sound is the worse part of the game and it sounds like something from the 8-bit NES era. They're 
 very simple, but fortunately, the sound isn't a very integral part of the game.
  
  The graphics are nothing execeptional but are very bright and colorful and they work very well.
 
  
  One of the other dissapointing parts of the game is that it costs a whopping 40 dollars. (United 
 States) That is more than the average DS game and certainly the publisher could make by with selling 
 it at $20 or $30.
  
  The actual gameplay is still as addictive as ever and, as mentioned earlier, work very well with 
 the touch screen. The amount of time you put into Zoo Keeper depends on whether or not you enjoy 
 simple puzzle games. But I can guarantee that if you liked Bejeweled, Diamond Mine, or the flash 
 version of Zoo Keeper, you will love it on the DS.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
