-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Zoo Tycoon DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/zootycoon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plenty of scenarios and free-form templates to test your zoo tycoon skills.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Next to no sound, stiffly animated animals and guests, and overall lackluster presentation.
 Cumbersome controls.
 Limited creative options are quickly exhausted.
 Only room for one saved game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  4, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.4
Critic Score: 4.5, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 430 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Blue Fang Games
Genre: Business Strategy
Date: Oct 11, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Zoo Tycoon DS captures the basic idea of what a Zoo Tycoon game is all about, but in the end it 
 feels more like a cheaply made imitation than an engaging strategy game. 

  Of all the tycoon games available on the PC and home consoles, Zoo Tycoon is probably about the 
 easiest one to translate to the Nintendo DS. The concept of the game is simple enough to be shrunk 
 down to portable size without sacrificing too much. Most of what makes Zoo Tycoon interesting and 
 challenging is entirely transparent, so it shouldn't be too terribly difficult to translate the 
 game to a handheld system. The relationship between animals and their environment is really what 
 Zoo Tycoon is about, and the DS version of the game does do a fairly good job of capturing that 
 spirit. Unfortunately, Zoo Tycoon DS is lacking in just about every other respect.  

          There are 50 different animals in the DS version of Zoo Tycoon.     

  Zoo Tycoon DS 
 can be played two different ways. You can play a scenario game or a free-form game. If you play 
 a scenario game, you're given a partially designed zoo to work with, and you have to satisfy certain 
 objectives within a given amount of time. There are 15 scenarios in the game, as well as three 
 tutorial scenarios to get you started. Objectives range from breeding pandas in captivity, to simply 
 creating a few stable exhibits and then keeping your animals above an average happiness rating 
 for six months. The scenarios range in difficulty, and the difficult ones are locked at the beginning 
 of the game. As you play a scenario, you can purchase cards for $2,000 each. You can buy as many 
 as you want, and if you complete the scenario, the cards will be added to your collection. The 
 cards aren't at all useful during play, but you can view them in a gallery to learn more about 
 each of the animals in the game.  

  If you choose to play a free-form game, you can choose one of more than 20 templates that range 
 in size and theme. If you like to keep things simple, you can choose an open grassy field. For 
 a bit more of a challenge, you can try to build a rocky desert zoo, or you can set up a park in 
 a snowy mountain forest. Once you choose your template, you can set your starting funds, the amount 
 of which will depend on how much of a challenge you're looking for. You can even set it as high 
 as $500,000, which is more than enough to build the most extravagant zoo the game will allow.  
 

  When designing your own zoo from the ground up, you can arrange exhibits to suit any of the 50 
 different animals in the game. You start off by building a fence to contain your animals, and then 
 you can choose the terrain type before placing foliage, rocks, shelter, and toys in the exhibit. 
 You can also assign a zookeeper to each exhibit, and he'll tell you exactly what you need to do 
 to make your animals happy. If your animals are happy and healthy, they'll have babies, which you 
 can put up for adoption or keep in your zoo. Keeping animals happy is the key to maintaining a 
 popular, healthy exhibit, and thanks to the hints provided by the zookeeper, it's relatively easy 
 to keep even the most fickle species happy in your zoo.  

  You not only have to keep animals happy, but you also have to take care of your guests as well. 
 To do this, you can create pathways to guide your guests through the park, in addition to building 
 food and drink stands, gift shops, restrooms, benches, picnic tables, and more. You can also beautify 
 your park with scenery, like fountains, shrubs, flower beds, and statues, which all add to the 
 appeal of your zoo. You can also make adjustments to the operations department of your zoo. You 
 can adjust ticket prices, spend money on marketing, put money toward researching new items and 
 animals, and hire maintenance workers and tour guides.         You can play through one of the 
 15 scenarios, or you can build your own zoo from the ground up.     

  It's fun to play around with creating a zoo, but it gets old fairly quickly. Your options feel 
 fairly limited here, and you'll have seen just about everything the game has to offer after just 
 an hour of tinkering with your own zoo. Oddly, you can only have one saved game at a time. So if 
 you have a free-form zoo saved, you can't start on a scenario game, because you won't be able to 
 save it without overwriting your other zoo. It would be nice if there were at least two or three 
 save slots so you could have more than one zoo at a time. But as it is here, you'll pretty much 
 be restricted to only having one zoo saved at a time. Perhaps this is for the better, though, because 
 once you have a zoo built, there isn't much to do with it anyway -- aside from just sitting back 
 to watch guests roll in. You can remodel your zoo when you get bored with it, but it's more hassle 
 than it's worth, thanks to some clunky controls.  

  This game makes heavy use of the stylus when it would probably be much easier to just use the control 
 pad. All the menus are displayed on the lower screen of the DS, and you make selections by touching 
 the screen. When adjusting terrain or building fences, you use the D pad to position a grid on 
 the upper screen. You'll see a grid on the bottom screen, and you can use the stylus to change 
 the terrain of each square, or you can drag the stylus around the grid to set up fences. This is 
 awkward because the screen isn't very sensitive in spots, so you end up having to hit the same 
 square several times before anything registers. Also, it can be annoying to try to look at the 
 top screen to figure out exactly where on the grid you want to start working. It would be much 
 easier if the grid on the bottom screen was shown in the actual context of the zoo so you could 
 see what you're building and where you are in relation to other objects. You can get the hang of 
 it after a while, but the interface just feels unnecessarily convoluted and cumbersome.  

  The graphics in the game look pretty small and undefined. Of all the 50 animals, only a few of 
 them actually have distinct looks. You'll see the same brownish blob move around using the same 
 two or three frames of animation over and over, which just doesn't look natural at all. Occasionally 
 you'll see an animal lie down or play, but those animations aren't any smoother, and they don't 
 do much to give you the idea that these are living animals rather than a bunch of poorly crafted 
 animatronic imitations. The guests move about like robots as well, and there are only a couple 
 of different character designs. The different types of terrain in the game amount to different-colored 
 squares on the grid, although the trees are fairly varied and can add some much-needed life to 
 an exhibit or zoo. Overall, the graphics here are unimpressive, even for a game whose visuals are 
 meant to be more functional than cosmetic.  

  The sound in the game barely exists. There's a brief tune at the main menu, but other than that 
 there's no music in the entire thing. There are some ambient noises, like the occasional bird chirping 
 or the howl of a wolf, but for the most part you could play this game on mute without missing anything. 
 You might be deprived of the sweeping noise maintenance workers make, but you can just grab a broom 
 and make the noise yourself, which, incidentally, would probably be about as much fun as playing 
 this game.  

          The visual presentation in the game is pretty weak, and the sound is pretty much nonexistent. 
     

  Zoo Tycoon DS is a fine concept, but it's poorly executed here. The ugly presentation, limited 
 creative options, and awkward controls make this game feel too limited to be worth playing. As 
 it is, Zoo Tycoon DS starts to wear thin after only an hour or two, and the fact that you can only 
 have one game saved at a time further stifles any long-term interest you may have in it. If you're 
 a Zoo Tycoon fanatic, you might be able to squeeze some enjoyment out of this, but most people 
 will find that this game offers little more than a brief diversion.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (40 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DSfreak789
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Zoo Tycoon 1 DS is fantastic!!
  
  I only started playing it yesterday and I already love it, but I am not sure whether that is because 
 I am kind of fond of animals??
  
  The GOOD:
  *You can save your work and don't need to worry about losing it.
  *You can start again if needed.
 
  *There are many animals to choose from.
  *There are many different fences and shelters to choose from.
  *There are different levels from 
 tutorial to very advanced.
  *The tutorials make it easier for you to know how to run things.
  *You start off with a certain 
 amount of money to start you off.
  *When you insert an object or animal, a little face will show you if it's happy or not.
  
  
 The BAD:
  *Not all animals, fences, shelters, staff employers are available from the start.
  *It sometimes 
 dose not let you know why an animal is unhappy.
  
  Overall, I would definitely get it. I'm looking forward to my birthday to get Zoo Tycoon 2 DS, 
 to see what that is like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forumdog123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  i dont like it, but i go with the sayingthings are never perfect" so i say that any game is 
 worth getting if you want it and wanna see how the graphics are and if the game is right for you. 
 i guess it was right for the person that rated ten... lol. so im just saying, check any kind of 
 game. (unless it has a 0 rating and its been out for a month.) people were sayingGuitar Hero 
 will never work on the ds."we need more buttons, not less." (although they got rid of orange 
 for a reason for GHOT. you cant move your hand over in that hand strap.) and look at the games 
 progress. I was one of the first people to get it (might even be the first person, reserved GHOT 
 and came over right when it opened at 6/22/08 11:00) . ok now back to ZTDS. i am now used to it. 
 i have gotten better and its not as bad. i would have rated it 5.0, but i hive it a 6.5. THINGS 
 ARE NEVER PERFECT! now go out there and try this game on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepsi-KFC
Rating: 5
Date: May 16, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Don't be fooled, you may think this game looks 100% terrible, but it's not, the problem is that 
 it is too basic, not user friendly, extremely poor and cheep graphics and the controlls duff up... 
 a lot!
  
  Despite all this, I personally think Microsoft actually put effort into this game, but as a whole 
 it dosn't work for a handheld. The game sees you looking after animals... sort of, it's more about 
 you're money compared to the animals wellfair. You personally have no intervention of where things 
 go, all you do is decide where everything gos... lame!
  
  For the first day or two this game is quite addictive and would have got 7.5 if it held up, but 
 all of a sudden it's not fun to play. The decoration and customisation of you're zoo is quite fun, 
 but like most games like this such as the Sims it gets very boring very quikly.
  
  The controlls with the pen can be too clunky, and there are some things you can't undo so it's 
 easy to mess up. This game by all means is worth playing for a bit if you get it for free, but 
 it's just not something you want to spend money on.
  
  All in all, if you like Sims this is an OK game, not even as good as Sim's but harvest moon is 
 superior in every way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blob1118
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 27, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Zoo Tycoon DS is a fun game and can keep you busy. I got it for X-mas of 06 and i still enjoy playing 
 it today (April 27 2008) . It won't take long to learn how to play (see manual) or (touritals 1-3) 
 The controls are good and easy and don't ever mess up. A few of the bad things about this game 
 is the sound and the animal birth that never stops. The only sounds in the game are animal sounds, 
 music in the menu and a broom (yes a broom) The animal birth is constant with Thomson Gazelles and 
 Zebras even the male zebras give birth which is a very spooky glitch. I almost forgot about the 
 horrid graphics, but bad graphics don't take away from its funness. There are many buildings to 
 choose from and many plants and flowers to choose from that will make your zoo look nice and will 
 make guests happy. Don't mistake garbage for flowers garbage will make guests angry hire a maintenance 
 worker to pick it up right away. There are many animals to choose from. Almost every animal has 
 its own special sound even the silent giraffe. A sad thing is some animals live only a few months 
 but some live for years. There are some unknown animals such as the okapi, markhor, ibex, gemsbok, 
 onagar, and kouprey. If animals escape they will line up in a perfect line and march out ina perfect 
 line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccooldudecool
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Zoo tycoon isn't that great of a game it has cards that you can buy and look at but it really isn't 
 worth it....
  Getting a perfect A rating can be very easy if you study where the animals go. 
  The graphics 
 are not that great and the people you see look a little blurry sometimes.
  There are alot of animals for you to obtain but none do special stuff like the other games.
  
 No Wi-Fi but it wouldn't be good with it anyway.
  No multi play at all.
  Some times you run out of land in your zoo alot keeping it crammed....
  I really don't suggest 
 this much it's fun for a lil but not too worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Yeah... Zoo Tycoon is a really fun game on the PC that offers ton's of tools and animals, but on 
 the DS, it's a disaster! Zoo Tycoon DS has horrible graphics, bad sound and poor controls, which 
 make it horrible and unworthy of a sequel. (Which it's getting)
  
  So, since I've gotta make this review quick I'll get to the point. THIS GAME SUCKS! The control 
 is unoriginal and badly planned out, the graphics are beautifully ugly, and the sound is just bad. 
 I'm going to skip to the pros and cons.
  
  Pros: Atleast it's Zoo Tycoon, right? No? Hmmm...
  
  Cons: Everything else.
  
  Yeah... 
 I hate this game... and you will too. Probably mainly because you can have only one save file but 
 I think it's a little bit of everything...
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  It's awful... if you're 
 looking at it in a store, just put it down and walk away... if you bought it and haven't played 
 it yet. Throw it out now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleGreenDog
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is.... sort of good. Nice choice of animals, good buildings... etc. But this game has a 
 few problems with it. There is barely ANY sound in the game. So far the only sounds I have heard 
 was the simple sounds of animals, and birds chirping the same way over and over again. The graphics 
 aren't bad, and they aren't good either. The animals reproduce WAY too quickly. Has anyone ever 
 heard of a lion cub with a full mane? And this game constantly freezes. If you don't want to waste 
 your time unlocking all the animals, use the cheat. For people who don't like using cheats, may 
 I mention that if you use it, you will also unlock the unicorn in the animal section (one of my 
 favorite animals in the game) . Well, this isn't much to say about the game, except for the glitches 
 and no sound, but it isn't all that bad. Give it a shot, you might enjoy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: heathsophrose
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for a long time. I am constantly running into glitches that make 
 it practically impossible to progress. The game often freezes. Sometimes certain parts of the game 
 freeze, making you fail. Sometimes save data that took an hour or more to accomplish disappears. 
 It would be a really fun game if things worked correctly, but that is not the case. It seems to 
 me that they were in a hurry to get it out and did not take the time to clean it up. If I had it 
 to do over again, I would certainly not buy this game. I hope this review saves some other poor 
 sap from wasting twenty dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbarkeri
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 26, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  When I first bought zoo tycoon for the ds I thought that I was buying a great game based on what 
 I had played on the PC. However to my dissapointment it couldn't have got any worse, is was the 
 worst game I have ever played on the ds and haven't played the game for over two years.
  
  I was under the impression that to add items into the playing area you would be able drag and drop 
 them using the stylus, however this again is not true you have to use the d-pad to place the object 
 down. This also applies to animals.
  
  On the PC version to view the stats of animals etc. you simply click on the animal however sadly 
 on the ds version you cannot click on anything in the playing area since the game is played on 
 the top screen and not on the touch screen.
  
  Overall the game is not very playable and is generally very hard to controll . What ever you do 
 don't buy this game, I would recommend that you spend the money expanding the PC version e. g. buying 
 the Marine Mania expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carys7993
Rating: 3.4
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Do not buy this game... it SUCKS. Its a waste of time. Its great as soon as you buy it but it just 
 gets dull. boring. The bad thing it that you can only make 1 zoo!! 1 ZOO!!! Making it it fun but 
 then after that there's nothing to do!! You can only make another zoo if you overwrite the first 
 one. I mean, the graphics are fine, like the pc game kinda, but everything else sucks. I guess 
 if u were desperate to make another zoo, you could make a zoo then not save then do it again, kinda 
 dumb though.
  
  Well, not everything's bad, the tutorials and scenario games are really, really fun. Not fun, but 
 better than making a zoo. Something to keep you busy. For instance, To unlock other tutorials/ 
 scenario games, you have to beat the ones before. one of them is making guests happy, another one 
 is game controls, etc. Then there's ones were you have like forest zoo, were you have to get a 
 zoo rating of 60, or animal happiness of 85, in 6 months, etc. to unlock, say, the inner city zoo. 
 which is harder. (duh) There's allot of tutorial / scenario games to do but when you finish them, 
 I guess it'll be boring repeating everything.
  
  Don't but this game, if you're desperate to play it, just borrow it from a friend and remember, 
 before buying games, check the ratings and reviews etc. Don't just go out and buy any game you 
 think looks nice or fun, (OMG DON'T BE FOOLED BY THE CUTE POLAR BEAR ON THE COVER!!!) . =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackrytonite
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 4:00 am PT
Review:  Zoo Tycoon DS is, essentially, a portable remake of the 2001 pc game with reworked controls. There 
 are a number of scenarios to play through, with certain requirements to meet within a set amount 
 of time, such as what the guest or animal happiness should be at or how many exhibits you should 
 have. You have to do the scenarios in order, unlocking more as you complete them. For those who 
 just want to play the game their way, there is a freeplay mode which pretty much lets you do whatever 
 you want. The tutorials are informative, quick, and give you a basic understanding of how to control 
 the game, how to run your zoo, how to make your guests and animals happy and such. You use the 
 D-Pad to navigate around your zoo at the top screen, and use the touch screen to do just about 
 everything else. The touch screen controls can be troublesome at times, but it isn't too big of 
 an issue. You take care of your animals by first setting up a fenced in area. You have to think 
 about what you're doing, for instance choosing certain fences depending on the strength of the 
 animal you wish to adopt, or how much space a certain animal needs. After you've put up the fence, 
 you can adopt the animal and place him/her. Each animal has different exhibit requirements. There 
 are plenty of different terrain, trees, rocks, shelters and other things to choose from; You'll 
 make the animal happy and your exhibit rating will go up if you place things accordingly.
  
  Your guests will generally be pleased if you decorate your zoo nicely, make sure your animals 
 are happy, provide places to eat and drink and use the bathroom, benches to sit down on, and plenty 
 of exhibits to see. The game really isn't as bad as it's made out to be. The controls can give 
 you issues, and it can get frustrating, but it isn't unplayable. The graphics have been downgraded 
 considerably, but they aren't horrible. The sound...... well there isn't really much sound. If you 
 like animals and have an open mind, you may enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romperstomper74
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  To be quite honest with you the game bored me to death, I played it once and that was enough for 
 me. I put it back in its box and not touched it since.
  
  The graphics on the game are neither here nor there, they are not fantastic but they are not that 
 bad neither. The game for me was repetitive once you had completed all the tutorials, and every 
 now and again the game would crash when ever you got so far in the game.
  
  It was a good idea for a game but I think that it could have been done better than what it has 
 been made into. I'm no games expert but I do know what I like and what I dont like. There were 
 no levels in the game, and it could have done with some of them if you ask me.
  
  By that I mean Reach a certain stage before you can do certain things in the game and also maybe 
 to a certain amount of tasks to earn more money to reach new levels and so on there could be so 
 many ideas you could use for a game like this that were not used.
  
  You didnt have to do anything to earn your money it was just given to you in a lump sum and you 
 had to build your zoo from there, it could have been laid out so much better than it was and I 
 would not recommend this game to anyone as I found it a big disappointment for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiir007
Rating: 2.9
Date: May 15, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  As soon as I saw this game in the shop I picked it up and saw the polar bear and thought Aww. What 
 a cute Polar Bear! . But just a few hours later I was thinking. Ahhh. What a horrible Polar Bear! 
 .
  
  The reason for this was that the graphics are very bad even as these games go. You couldn't even 
 recognise the keepers as humans. They looked more like pinkish blobs with yellow clothes.
  The animals only vaguely resemble animals and the lions look like a coffee stain. It it was just 
 terrible playing as the tutorial really didn't tell me how to do anything. The scenarios didn't 
 make any sense. You couldn't even customise their cages or make extra fences. I was hopeful that 
 the freeplay mode would be better it some way, but it just wasn't. Freeplay mode was just the same 
 as scenarios, except there wasn't some guy with a mustache telling you to Keep the Rhino's well 
 feed or something of the sort.
  You just put in cages and animals. You couldn't even ix tigers and monkeys.
  But the thing that 
 let it down the most was that you couldn't let the lions feed on customers.
  
  The sounds were extremely bad with the music being a stupid drawl which went for about ten seconds 
 then restarted.
  It would change if you highlighted a different cage.
  And if you put down an animal there was an annoying grunt or screech from a monkey.
  
  All 
 in all I thought it was a crummy game which should not be bought even if you only have that game 
 to keep you from going insane. Or if it was in a discount bin for 10p. Actually even if it was 
 a bin, where I expect it to be, you should not pick it up.
  It will suck your brains out and pull your eyes out.
  If I could rate it anything I like I would 
 give it -5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thesimsfrk111
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 10, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I know it. Everyone who plays it knows it. This game is bad. And I don't understand why, it had 
 all the elements. They just imported it directly, pretty much! But, it just doesn't have that Zoo 
 Tycoon -y feel we all know and love from 2001. Now it just seems... a bit... weirder? You can't really 
 put the feeling in the words. The only criteria that was above mediocre in Zoo Tycoon DS was the 
 background music. I like Zoo Tycoon music. But anyways, don't buy it. Not worth your money. Wait 
 'till June 2007 to get the Sim City DS... Now THAT'LL be some good stuff on the DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sumuran
Rating: 3.1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I bought Zoo Tycoon with high hopes. Having played it's pc counterpart and thoroughly enjoying 
 it I figured a port of the game on a handheld would be pretty fun. The first thing you notice when 
 you begin a zoo is that there is no sound to be heard. Aside from the main theme on the start screen 
 and the occasional wolf howl (If you have wolves) or the sweep of a broom by workers there is little 
 sound to be heard. But perhaps this is a good thing as its not the best quality. The second thing 
 you notice is the horrendous graphics. This game might be passable on a Game boy Advance but on 
 a DS its just sad. The animals repeat the same handful of animations and very jerky animations 
 at that. Even through the bad audio and visual presentation you'd think a zoo sim with lots of 
 objects and animals to place in it would be fun right? Wrong... The game attempts to use the stylus 
 to place fences and terrain but its just one large green grid and can be difficult to master. Even 
 keeping animals is pretty dull. The mandatory zoo keeper in each exhibit tells you everything you 
 need to have. Even through all of this some people might squeeze some fun out of this by making 
 a humongous dream zoo right? Wrong... I was in this same mind when I was creating a zoo until I 
 reached the limit for the number of benches, lamps, and everything else. Thats right a limit. The 
 game gives you huge fields or lakes yet by the time you develop half of it you can place no more 
 things. Do yourself a favor and pass on ever getting this game. If you still won't be swayed from 
 buying Zoo Tycoon then buy the one on pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_XX
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 19, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This is basically just a zoo that you create from scratch, dig or heighten the ground, change the 
 ground to all sorts of landscaping like sand, forest, water, stone, tons of more, and make walkways 
 so guest will follow the pavement checking out your zoo. You also choose the fence and the size 
 of it, usually make it bigger depending on the animal you buy, but the animal you choose has specific 
 needs, like a lion wants a specific amount of savanah grass, grass, dirt, and water in its exibit 
 where a polar bear wants just snow, and water with some rocks, and all animals like a specific 
 type of foilage too in its exibit but dont worry their is a list that tells you what the animals 
 need and what it has to much of in its space. Build restrooms, inscect and reptile houses, restuarants, 
 hot dog stands, ice cream stands, drink stands, garbage cans etc. Research new animals and animal 
 toys to unlock and change the price of admission tickets while you try to perfect your zoo to the 
 best you can make it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiowns
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  Zoo Tycoon is a bad mix of lame gameplay, bad graphics, and hard controls. That game was very horrible 
 and it seemed like it was slapped together at the last minute. I'll say it again, don't buy that 
 game!
  
  First of all, the instructions were no help to me at all. While it would seem that the touch screen 
 would make it cooler, it didn't. It made it way more complicated! You had to go a huge process 
 to find out what that animal liked to eat, and by the time you had figured it out, it was already 
 dead, and the only reason I put the animal in there before I put in the food, was because the smiley 
 faces told me if the was too much of something, so I had to put them in there!
  
  Second, they had a huge problem with space issues. I had built about 4 or 5 exhibits, plus restaurants, 
 and had no room to do anything else! I decided to make some of the exhibits smaller, but when I 
 did, the animals weren't happy anymore!
  
  To make matters worse, the guests were no better either. They were always complaining about something, 
 whether it be too few bathrooms, not enough food, no kiddy rides, or something equally frustrating. 
 The staff were no better, it was almost impossible to get them to do anything, and the only ones 
 I really needed were the zoo keepers.
  
  While there may have been a lot of bad, there was some good in it. It was addicting for about a 
 month, and in that period, I decided to shove off the negative aspects. The smiley faces of the 
 animals helped out a lot in placing terrain, and the variety of animals was good. Also the accuracy 
 of all of the things they liked. I never really seemed short of money, so I was allways building 
 new things.
  
  In combination of the things above, I would have to say the only people who would like this game, 
 are animal fanatics, people who love the Zoo Tycoon series, or just a plain old die-hard Nintendo 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minisheep56
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 11, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  Zoo tycoon can be a fun game but at &pound;30.00 new you're better off getting the pc version.
 
  
  It has some good qualities for instance the touch screen is used very well, and its always nice 
 to know that you've unlocked a new animal but, the fun goes after about a week.
  the graphics are poor, you hardly ever hear any sounds atall and the game gets even more boring 
 as it goes on.
  You can only save 1 zoo at a time including the scenario zoos.
  
  THIS GAME IS DEPRESSING!!! I enjoyed the pc version get that it only costs like a fiver this game 
 is a rip off for its price, dontwaste your money!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PattyGoalie
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 7, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I thought it was pretty good game. If you like to go to see all of the different animals 
 at the zoo than it is a great game for you. If you like lots of different wild animals than I guess 
 you will probably like it to. And I guess you can just like the game. You can put different animals 
 in different cages for people see. You always try to keep your animals happy so that more people 
 will come to your zoo. You cane put different stands such as hot dog stands, ice cream stands, 
 arcade places and many more. You can hire people for your zoo and fire people. You earn awards 
 if you build your zoo right.
  
  Sound: Great, the music never gets tiring. The sound is great.
  
  Recommendation: I would highly 
 recommend this game because it is a great game and it is very fun.
  
  Value: $25 USA and $40 Canadian 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tavanesh
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't really worth checking out at all. It's a little fun at first if your a fan of the 
 series but gets boring really quickly. All it really is a cheaply made version of the first zoo 
 tycoon. Build a cage, Drop an animal in. Build a cage, drop an animal in thats all there really 
 is to it. You cant even let your animals go on a rampage and eat people. In this game you must 
 put animals in cages and if the cage gets worn out or the animal is unhappy it gets taken away. 
 The scenarios are exactly like the one's in the first computer one. You can also collect zoo cards 
 which has absolutely no point at all. I hope someone gets more out of this then i did. I only got 
 about 2-3 hours out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_13est_
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 25, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  It was a sunny day and i woke up bright and early wondering what DS game i was to rent from my 
 local BlockBuster. Zoo Tycoon, Yes, this was the game to keep me entrigued. But as soon as i turned 
 on my DS and the game started i was dissapointed. The grpahics look like extremely polished SNES 
 graphics, you get completely chucked in the deep end with absolutely no clue on how to naivgate 
 around the game and it becomes boring in the first 10m minutes. Rollercoaster Tycoon is a classic 
 game, it's ambitious and fun to play, So is Zoo Tycoon on the PC, but on the DS it really is just 
 terrible. DS is probably my favourite console at the moment, considering all of my reviews are 
 near enough DS reviews, but this really sucks comapred to them all. Don't get me wrong, there's 
 quite a range of animals and the variety of scenery and things are quite appealing, but that's 
 about the entirity of the qualities in this game. THQ needs to step a few paces and think if it 
 thinks a game like this will beocme successful in the DS industry. Theres too many good games out 
 there now ( Under the Knife/Mario 64/Pokemon Link/Tetris DS) for a game like this to be produced 
 and put on the market. A dull and boring attempt to create a building sim on the DS. Not good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstonyr
Rating: 6
Date: May 6, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  Zoo tycoon is a pretty realistic game. But the Graphics are horrible. The fact that you can only 
 save one game really sucks. The Game play is good but it mist is a lot of things that the original 
 zoo tycoon game has. Like certain, shelters, and plats. The game is very cheaply made, and you 
 can tell that the people hue worked on the game didn't try very hard to make this game good. Even 
 though it's only $30 it's still a rip-off. The Sound is ok it really sounds like the animals really 
 their. The Sound is the best part of the game. I hope my review was helpful to you if so please 
 tell so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superweasle
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 30, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  I love tycoon games, but Zoo Tycoon DS was a major rip-off and didn't bring me what I was expecting. 
 I'm just mad at it. I really can't stand it when you buy a game that is good for one system, in 
 this case PC, and it is terrible for another system, like DS. I just wanna scream: EVIL! And I 
 think many people would have to agree with me that this is a game that just doesn't live up to 
 its potential. I mean it really, Really, REALLY doesn't live up to its potential... at all. The 
 main thing that bugs me is making cages for the animals, it takes forever to get it right, and 
 many other features are too weird to run. Zoo Tycoon DS i very, very dissapointing... 'nuff said! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 2.2
Date: Apr 21, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  This is one of the worst games avilable for DS sloopy gameplay horrible graphics no music or sound 
 at all doesn't live up to any Zoo Tycoons at all this game just sucks. I meand make a zoo your 
 fences go all over the place and just make a mess. I mean come on if THQ makes this for PSP or 
 PS2 or something else it will probaly still suck. This is oe of the dummest most retarded games 
 I've ever played. SUPERMAN 64 might be better than this dum stupid game. This sucks. I'm enductiong 
 it in the Hall of Shame. HORRIBLE GAME!
  This is child-abuse! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhufford
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  What a quirky and interesting title. A game about a zoo. Now I am sure most of you are thinking 
 this is game geared toward nine year old girls. You would be wrong. This is what is known as a 
 Tycoon game. That means it asks you to imagine yourself as a rich high-society type, rather than 
 the schmuck you are. This game asks you to take control of an entire zoo, and try not to burn the 
 place down.
  
  A few years ago Microsoft released a big-boy version of this game for Windows. Obviously this is 
 a toned down version of that game. It gives you a plethora of scenarios to jump into, or you can 
 just build a zoo from scratch. It gives you more options then any DS title should. The DS is still 
 amazing me with what it can do. 
  
  You can control the money you start out with, the size of the zoo, and everything within it. If 
 you build it, they will come. After messing around and creating a couple of exhibits, people start 
 to arrive. These people are fussy. You have to keep them happy with plenty of food service, nice 
 amenities and trash service. If you do something displeasing to them, they will complain. And you 
 will hate it.
  
  Building the exhibits is a lot more fun then making guests happy. You also have to keep the animals 
 happy, but they are much easier to make happy. You have to provide them adequate space, food, caretakers, 
 and foliage. You do those simple things and you will have no problems. Just dont try to put a 
 lion in a penguin cage. The penguins wont like that.
  
  Of course there are tons of unlockables in a game like this. As you progress through time in the 
 game, more animals will become available. Along with more animals all sorts of other things become 
 available, such as landscape items, animal toys and shelters, and amenities for the public. 
  
  My only real beef with this game is the beef I have with all tycoon games. It never ends. There 
 is never a point where it says You Win! I think that after five years of maintaining a perfect 
 zoo, I should get some sort of recognition. But I am sure this is the feature that draws people 
 to these games. All in all, this is not a bad way to kill an afternoon by any means. The experience 
 can only be enhanced with the addition of adult beverages to the equation.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xNYROCx
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  well, first off, after i managed to figure out how to play... it was really fun!
  
  GAMEPLAY: well, all that i really have to say about this is the the whole idea about bringing pc 
 games to a handheld really rocks! i prefer the freeform game, because it's a kind of ano pressure, 
 free play, just relax and enjoy it" kinda thing...
  
  GRAPHICS: meh. not too great. i wish that you could zoom in a bit more... because the animals and 
 such are teensy weensy!
  
  SOUND: i really like how the animals make noise. the souds are also very realistic.
  
  VALUE: 
  yeah. good value.
  
  TILT: I highly reccomend buying this, for yourself and/or your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonicKa
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game today and i love it! what could be better than a tycoon game on the go?? you 
 don't use the touch screen that much when playing but the great gameplay makes up for it! sure, 
 the graphics aren't much, but thats easy to forgive because graphics don't really matter with a 
 game like this. the game has a few different modes, one teaches you how to play the game, another 
 is a free mode where you build your zoo without any objectives, the other is the regular game. 
 another cool feature is the where you can collect cards. well worth the money and very fun. its 
 so awesome that pc games are coming to ds! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeweejr
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 2, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  First off, anyone out there who says this is not a good game, should not even be playing zoo tycoon! 
 It has loads of more animals, loads more plants, and it's portable! I also love the music. (it 
 gets stuck in my head, but at least it's good!) The only problem I found is that you can't get 
 close enough to the animals to actually see what they look like. The feature of collecting cards 
 is another reason why the ds version beats the pc version. Overall a great game! I could play it 
 for hours! (And there better be a sequel too!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkan-
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I got the game like 2weeks ago and still going on missions which to say is pretty hard after like 
 3-4 level's.
  
  animal lovers are counting on you to create the best zoo ever as you select the animals, run the 
 gift shop, build fences and more 
  First tycoon-style game on a handheld 
  Dual screen and touch screen technology allow for seamless zoo-play. 
  
  +Seaworld: Shamu's 
 Deep Sea Adventures is coming on ds
  which i gotter have.
  
  Very nice game on ds lots of fun.
  Very nice game on ds lots of fun.
  Very nice game on ds 
 lots of fun.
  Very nice game on ds lots of fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coffeecrisper
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Zoo Tycoon DS is okay. I would reccomend renting it first. I got it for Christmas and found that 
 it took a while to get used to the controls and I still find them a little difficult.
  
  The game itself is okay, it gives u the basic idea of the pc game (which i really enjoy) It's a 
 good game for animal lovers who would like to learn about the different species' habitats. Also 
 if u buy zoo cards, u can learn even more about the different animals but thats pretty much all 
 they do.
  
  Overall i think it is an okay game and can get a bit difficult at times (not having enough times 
 in the senario) , but it wasnt quite as good as i expected it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amandagal
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 4, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the PC version of Zoo Tycoon and I was disappointed with this one. Where to start? 
 The first thing I noticed is that exhibit layout is tiring at best. On the PC, even without a touch 
 screen, it was much easier to lay fencing and terrain. I figured the DS would have that one down. 
 Viewing the layout is kind of bothersome too. 
  
  The second thing I noticed is that you can't have multi species exhibits. That was part of the 
 fun of Zoo Tycoon and it's real life zoo planning these days. You can't bulldoze fences and let 
 the animals out to eat the visitors either (not part of real life zoo planning but great fun in 
 the PC version) . There's a bunch of other little things that were changed for reasons I don't understand 
 (why a zookeeper in each exhibit for example. In the old one you could assign one keeper multiple 
 exhibits. Guest and animal comments are not as detailed either) . It probably has to do with the 
 capacity of the DS but I've played other DS sim games and they're much better.
  
  I haven't played long enough to see if the animal options are going to be as robust but they don't 
 seem to be at the beginning. 
  
  Overall I think this was a badly designed copy. As long as they've been planning this game, you'd 
 think they could do a better job. 
  
  I realize I'm a bit biased. Without the original to compare to, it's probably a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strkr241
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing zoo tycoon on the pc and i didnt think much of it, the graphics were bad and 
 it was far too boring for me. whats the difference with the ds version? not much, the graphics 
 are still pretty bad and it might be boring for some however the ds version has something a little 
 extra. i havent noticed anything different with the content but the add of a touch screen make 
 the game much more easy to play and makes the zoo's just that bit more managable. 
  
  the animals look horrific but you know what they are. the noises dont sound like animal noises 
 at all. but the whole idea of being able to take a zoo round your friends house is cool. theres 
 so many different things to make that its very easy to turn your small piece of land into a beautiful 
 family attraction. apart from the crappy graphics and the bad sound, this game is a exact replica 
 from the popular pc version. apart from the fact that you can only have one park at a time, it 
 is a very fun game. a musst own for any creative ds owner's game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ldaniels683
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:09 am PT
Review:  I have to admit I am a little biased, I like all of the tycoon games for the computer, so when 
 I saw it for the DS, I kind of already liked it. The DS turned out to be a wonderful platform for 
 the game, the touch screen made it much more enjoyable. I haven't beaten it yet, but am in no hurry, 
 in fact, I haven't even made my own zoo yet! The animal sounds can get really annoying though, 
 I would suggest putting some music on and just turning off the sound on the DS. It is an interesting 
 game, that you will find yourself coming back to over and over again. I would definitely recommend 
 it. Can't wait for another Tycoon game for any handheld system (PSP might be nice :) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Widger5000
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:32 am PT
Review:  When I first bought Zoo Tycoon DS I was not expecting that much, looking at the gamespot ratings. 
 However, I realized that this game is a decent mimic of the PC version. I played it for a day or 
 two, and uncovered several downers. The terrain does not blend into each other, all things are 
 kept into a grid. The ground is very chopy. The game, I felt, was also much easier than the PC 
 version. It is much easier to get rewards. That is a good thing. All in all i give this game a 
 7, it would have been a 9 if the graphics were as good as the PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazymariolover
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2005 10:58 am PT
Review:  Gameplay : A bit on the boring side but plenty to do and loads of animals and scenarios. But overall 
 its good
  
  Graphics : Beautiful scenary but the animals and guests don't look very attractive at all. Because 
 of the sexy scenary ive given it a 9
  
  Sound : It has virtually no sound just the odd animal noise here and there
  
  Value : Well 
 there were no new copies in the shop so i got a second hand copy which was 5 and i was shocked 
 at how good it was for that sort of price! So i've given it a 9 because it's good for 5
  
  I don't know what tilt means!!! someone tell me! so i gave it a ten lol! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LCM6281
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review:  Zoo Tycoon DS.
  
  I got this game as a present off my mum on Saturday 26th November 2005 as she was going on holiday 
 on 27th Sunday. So far I think the game is great. I've completed one tutorial level already and 
 I've only had the game 17 hours and 35 minutes. I've got all the Zoo tycoon series for PC but this 
 one is the best. I've read the instruction booklet for it and followed all the health and safety 
 features in the booklet. I've done a mini zoo and saved it so I can continue later.
  
  I will be playing on this game for hours on end as it is fab.
  
  Zoo Tycoon DS is the best 
 game I've got for my Nintendo DS even though I've got another 5 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 16, 2005 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This is how ports should be done. What they did here was insted of a mouse you got toutch screen 
 suport. It looks like near crap but don't get it cuz of that. If you always wanted this game or 
 to run a zoo in your hands then you should get this. Som, e things i did not like was not being 
 able to sick anamls on the visters. You cant mix the anamls and lastley you have to unlock a lot 
 of things. All that aside you get one nice game that should keep you entertained for awile. I recomend 
 this to most of you ds owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TitanTilDaEnd
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 10, 2005 10:51 pm PT
Review:  During all the hours I spent playing Zoo Tycoon on the PC i always thought that it would be awesome 
 if they made it for the GBA. About a year later when I heard that they were going to make a zoo 
 tycoon for the DS I couldn't believe it. I couldn't wait until that game came out. As soon as I 
 got that game I couldn't help but hold back a smile when I heard music. It was the same music that 
 was on the PC and that just made me thrilled. When I first started gameplay I was surprised by 
 how many maps there were, and how big the maps got. The controls take awhile to get used to, but 
 once you know them things are pretty smooth. I was amazed by all the animals that you can have, 
 and how the game looked similar to the PC. Overall the game was great. But it did have flaws. One 
 thing that I did not like was the fact that you couldn't have marine animals or dinosaurs. Thats 
 what I loved the most about the PC version, was all the different types of animals. And another 
 thing was that at some times, the guest are really dumb. They will wander on a strip of path for 
 a long time just walking up and down. Despite these things, this game is an awesome game that you 
 can take around with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 25, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is great! I had played before on my computer and I wish that more games like 
 this were sold for the Nintendo DS. You get the chance to build your own zoo, put in the animals 
 that you like and make it your very own. Because there is so much to do your game can go on as 
 long as you like. If you like games such as animal crossing and harvest moon that I know that you 
 will love the new nintendo Ds zoo Tycoon! Fun for the whole family or just by yourself. I have 
 four kids and everyone in my home fights over who gets to play Zoo Tycoon. I wish they made some 
 of the other Tycoom games for the nintendo DS as well. Give it a try and I know that you will love 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkingcats
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 12, 2005 3:13 am PT
Review:  I was actually disappointed with this title. I was really looking forward to THQ and Blue Fang 
 showing us what the DS can do. The title is more around GBA quality (besides the touch screen) . 
 The graphics aren't very good comparing to what I've seen the DS do in terms of graphics. The sound 
 quality isn't very good either. Some of the sound effects are a bit annoying after you hear them 
 a few times. Also, the A. I. of the animals, staff, and guest are really lacking. I didn't really 
 see much personality in any of the three and my zoo keeper tends to not feed my animals very well. 
 Another thing is you can't make a gate and the zoo keeper stays in the exhibit the whole time. 
 I had really liked on the PC version that they could go in and out. You could assign them certain 
 animals or let them roam.
  The controls are fine and the options are set up so its easy to understand. The unlocking system 
 is still good. The more you play more objects you get. You can still research and do marketing 
 for your zoo. The animals are cute (although not very detailed) . So far, its not nearly as addicting 
 for me as the PC game was, and the maps are a lot smaller (I haven't played so far as to find out 
 if you can unlock bigger maps yet) . I can't fit a lot of different exhibits in my maps unless I 
 make them smaller (but I want my animals to roam freely!) .
  Overall, I think more time should have been spent on Zoo Tycoon DS. The quality is lacking and 
 it really isn't the game it could have been. You might find yourself feeling limited. The title 
 may still appeal to females (who like sim type of games) and younger people, but if you're looking 
 for something with a lot more depth, visual appeal and addictive quality you may want to pass this 
 title up and wait for something else like Animal Crossing. Maybe, pick this title up when it isnt 
 so much money.
  
  -Chelsea H.
  Age: 19 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
