-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Zoo Tycoon 2 DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/zootycoon2ds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of information about all the animals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Management options for animals and facilities are light.
 Not at all challenging.
 Game allows you to overcrowd animal enclosures.
 Plain-looking.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  9, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.5, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 73 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Altron
Genre: Strategy
Date: Feb 4, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Zoo Tycoon 2 for the DS is an overly simplistic zoo-management game that won't find many fans over 
 the age of 10. 

  Zoo Tycoon 2 for the Nintendo DS is a management sim that lacks the depth or difficulty to make 
 it interesting for anyone other than its intended kiddie audience. But even so, parents looking 
 at this title as a way to get their little tykes interested in the plight of some of the world's 
 most endangered animal species may want to think again, as Zoo Tycoon 2 sends some decidedly mixed 
 messages about animal welfare thanks to its ultrasimplistic gameplay.  

           Even cool animals like Cheetahs can't make Zoo Tycoon 2 interesting for very long.    
   

  Zoo Tycoon 2, like its predecessors, is all about creating great zoos with happy animals in healthy 
 environments. So you can't do truly horrible things like get into the bear bile trade, stick kangaroos 
 in aquariums, or make a beaver and a moose fight for your love. The happier your animals, the more 
 people come to see them. The more people come, the more money you make, which you can then spend 
 on improving your park and doing research to be able to house even more exotic creatures, and so 
 on. It's a laudable premise, but the game's simplicity and options-light approach too often allow 
 players to cut corners and place animals in some clearly overcrowded situations -- a strange oversight 
 for a game supposedly all about a greater appreciation for our animal brethren.  

  The biggest problem Zoo Tycoon 2 for the DS has is that its core gameplay -- keeping your animals 
 happy by creating the right environments for them, as well as monitoring their five basic needs -- is 
 so stripped of any complexity that you can literally use the same strategy for making all your 
 critters happy regardless of their size, rarity, or temperament. There's simply no challenge to 
 be found at all in the game's Campaign mode, a series of 15 scenarios split up into five difficulties. 
 Each scenario tasks you with achieving certain objectives within a set time frame and budget, but 
 they all amount to the same thing -- start up your zoo with some basic animals, complete the research 
 tree to unlock rarer ones, and watch the crowds roll in.  

  You must keep the game's animals in enclosures that match their respective natural habitats. You'll 
 find this by selecting the animal once it's in your enclosure and finding out what its preferences 
 are simply via tapping the animal favorites button. This will show its preferred ground surface, 
 water type, foliage, and shelter, and will guide you directly to the purchase screen to buy, and 
 then place, your selections.  

  If that sounds simple enough, it's because it is. Since exactly what's needed is clearly pointed 
 out via a series of prompts, this process quickly becomes tedious as the ol' synapses never have 
 to fire up at any stage to make any important decisions. Creating the perfect habitat for every 
 animal -- from otter to elephant -- is as easy and quick as covering the ground with the appropriate 
 surface, sticking some water in the corner, planting a tree here and there, putting down the occasional 
 rock or shelter, and then placing a zookeeper in the enclosure to take care of all your animals. 

  Zoo Tycoon 2 does let you take a more hands-on role with the upkeep of your flock. The game's ZooKeeper 
 mode lets you interact with any animal in the park, and is essentially a series of five minigames 
 that directly impact an animal's happiness. All of these minigames are mind-numbingly straightforward, 
 however, and will probably hold your interest for only a few rounds before you decide to ditch 
 it completely and let a computer-controlled zookeeper do it for you. The feeding minigame, for 
 example, presents you with four food options, but it's always easy to know which one to feed your 
 chosen animal because the game highlights it for you.  

  The feeding minigame is but one example of Zoo Tycoon 2's almost fanatical dedication to remove 
 anything remotely challenging from the game. Even at its highest difficulty, players can do the 
 minimum amount of work and still come up with superhappy animals raring to procreate to continue 
 their species. All of the nonanimal park options -- such as food outlets, restrooms, gift shops, 
 and more -- seem to have little to no impact on how popular your zoo is with guests. We completed 
 numerous campaigns with only basic hot dog shops and soft drink stands and had no problems earning 
 the maximum star rating available. We even grouped together toilet blocks in just one corner of 
 the zoo, and still our bladder-challenged patrons didn't complain.  

  To its credit, Zoo Tycoon 2 does include comprehensive details about all the animals featured on 
 its roster for any curious kiddies. Information cards on each of the animals are collected as you 
 progress through the game, and they contain plenty of information, such as its habitat, characteristics, 
 and more.  

  Outside of the main campaign mode, Zoo Tycoon 2 for the DS features a freeform mode where you can 
 set your own parameters such as starting cash, type of zoo, and more. There are also two multiplayer 
 modes: Trade a Zoo, in which you simply swap a zoo you've already created with a friend, and Tycoon 
 Showdown, in which two players compete to build a better zoo from the same starting base. When 
 it comes to controls, almost everything can be done using the stylus and touch screen, although 
 we found it preferable to navigate around the maps using the DS's D pad.  

           Mommy, why are the animals so tiny and blurry?      

  DS games can look much better 
 than what Zoo Tycoon 2 presents. The animal models in the game are uniformly poor, particularly 
 from the default overhead zoo view, where it's often hard to tell one animal from another (Nile 
 crocodiles, for example, look like slow-moving green smudges onscreen) . Zookeeper close-ups of 
 the animals don't fare much better -- there are models for male, female, and younguns, but most look 
 bad and in some cases are anatomically incorrect. The music here is average at best, made up mostly 
 of African-infused sounds with a lot of percussion. Animal sounds are dull as well, and are limited 
 to one sound per animal.  

  With the challenge factor dropped all the way down to zero, all that's left of Zoo Tycoon 2 for 
 the DS is repetitive gameplay and some questionable animal-care ethics. Even kids may find this 
 game dull, and while this beast isn't quite bad enough to be put down, it certainly isn't something 
 you'd want to spend much time with.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Birdybot
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  If you play Zoo Tycoon games for the 'zoo' aspect, then you're in the same boat as me, and may 
 be as disappointed as I was by the heavy emphasis on 'tycoon' featured in this game....
  
  The animals, suffering from the neglect of the developers, are left in the hot car in this remake 
 of Zoo Tycoon. The same visual perspective that the PC version uses to full advantage does not 
 translate to DS. Instead, the third-person perspective is horribly distant and alienating from 
 your little zoo. Even if you squint, nope, those little blurry black smudges don't look ANYTHING 
 like panthers. 
  
  Instead, the game really comes down to the dirtier aspects of Zoo culture: The money. The most 
 sophisticated screens in the game happen, unsurprisingly, to be the spreadsheets where the user 
 can analyze data about the economic efficiency of their zoo. Honestly? Are accountants playing 
 this game? Who in their right mind wants to play a game so crudely stripped down to dollars and 
 cents? Where's the option of naming your little furry creature? These are cute little endangered 
 animals here, people, not decorations that make your zoo more attractive to visitors! 
  
  Ok, I admit, I'm sure it's a consideration that the management of a real zoo takes into account, 
 but, it's not the aspect that I want to play in a handheld game. Where's the magic? Where's the 
 mystery?
  
  I didn't like it. It made me feel sorry for animals in REAL zoos.
  ... unless that was the point of the game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 12:50 am PT
Review:  I am a zoo tycoon got the pc and have everyone they have ever made. I did get the first Zoo tycoon 
 for thre DS and although it was ok it was not my faviorite. I really felt like they should have 
 worked a little harder on the game before it came out but was excited to see there was going to 
 be a new one coming out. The new one remined me of the first one with a little better graphics 
 and sound but still could use a little work. If you are a die hard Zoo Tycoon fan then you will 
 like it but it is lacking a little in the graphics and the game play. I guess I just wish it was 
 a little more like the ones they have made for the PC and I would say rent it first to make sure 
 that you are going to like it. Not my fave game but all in all i is pretty good and worth a try. 
 Right now it is 30,00 so I would say wait for the price to go down or rent it to make sure it is 
 the game for you. All in all it; s pretty fun but something about it is just a little off. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
