-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Zubo
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/zubo/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Novel combat is not only fun, but deep as well.
 Interesting characters pulled from popular culture.
 A variety of cool-looking environments.
 Quirky visual style.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too much backtracking and poorly defined objectives.
 The story is practically nonexistent.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 16, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.4, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 20 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Bright Light
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Mar 10, 2009
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unique combat and cheery visuals make this kid-friendly role-playing game fun, despite some flaws. 
 

  Zubo is an attempt to bring the grand-scale adventure of role-playing games to a younger audience. 
 The vibrant visuals, colorful cast of characters, and action-oriented combat make the adventure 
 immediate and satisfying, coaxing you to see what new environment lies before you or what strange 
 character you might befriend along the way. The long and expansive journey affords you a good opportunity 
 to explore the exotic world that you travel through, but this breadth is also one of the game's 
 greatest hindrances. The pacing is compromised by too much backtracking and ill-defined objectives, 
 which can make the adventure drag at times. Despite this uneven momentum, the unique combat and 
 playful presentation make Zubo an enjoyable introduction to role-playing.  

  You play as a generic boy or girl on a quest to save the planet Zubalon from a race of angry creatures 
 called Zubos. However, the story does little more than set the stage for why you are battling these 
 little creatures. There's not much of an attempt to flesh out the backstory of this warring land, 
 so the imaginative world that you explore is never fully developed. Instead, the story exists to 
 shuffle you from one objective to the next, without much exposition. The lack of character development 
 is even more disheartening. The characters that you team up with are all ripped from popular folktales, 
 so there are easily recognizable parodies of Count Dracula, Captain Ahab, and Little Red Riding 
 Hood, among others. However, the game doesn't take advantage of this unique cast. Instead of having 
 these disparate personalities play off of each other, they remain largely silent. Although neither 
 the sparse story nor the quiet characters kill the fun, the absence of a catchy narrative feels 
 like a missed opportunity. It would have been interesting to see how this odd menagerie fits together. 

  The story may hide sheepishly in the background, but the action-packed combat does a good job of 
 keeping this adventure interesting. Your attacks are handled in a rhythmic manner, which gives 
 you the kind of direct control absent from many other turn-based RPGs. Every one of your moves 
 features elaborate choreography, and as the characters perform pirouettes and flying leaps, you 
 tap along on the touch screen. A series of concentric circles slowly closes around your character, 
 indicating when to tap the screen. The more precise your timing is, the more damage you can dish 
 out, which makes the battles engaging. There is one slight hiccup: The prompts don't follow the 
 rhythm of the music, which makes your tapping feel out of place at times. Like the forgettable 
 story, this doesn't destroy the fun, but it feels like another missed opportunity.  

  Nevertheless, the combat isn't all about happily tapping the screen. There is a surprising amount 
 of depth in these duels, which makes conquering the trickier foes satisfying. You have a variety 
 of different moves at your disposal, including healing spells, strength boosters, and forced sleep, 
 and juggling between them requires a bit of thought. As you perform basic attacks, you build up 
 a supply of power pills, which give you access to more powerful moves. Your foes have the same 
 moves, though, so you will frequently have to steal their power pills or stun enemies to keep them 
 from unleashing deadly blows. Once you learn a move, any of your characters can include it in his 
 or her four-move repertoire, which gives you plenty to think about before fights begin. Offensive 
 and defensive moves each have their own strengths and weaknesses, so for instance, if none of your 
 characters have a sound-based attack, you can be stymied by your enemy's shields. These dynamics 
 force you to be flexible, and its rewarding to create a clever hodgepodge of specialists to help 
 you conquer your foes.  

  Combat is the main draw to Zubo, but the fantastical lands are also enticing. There are five different 
 worlds to explore, and each of them is packed with unique environments. It's great fun traveling 
 from a haunted house to a pirate ship, crossing through a crackling desert into a freezing wasteland, 
 and holding your nose while you scamper through a suffocating swamp. Opening up a new area is always 
 a treat, but you are often trapped in these new lands for so long that the charm eventually dissipates. 
 There is far too much backtracking, so even though it's fun moving from island paradise to Thor's 
 underground labyrinth the first time, going back again doesn't have the same impact. More troubling 
 are the esoteric objectives. When you are told to "Explore the maze" without any hint of where 
 said maze actually is, it can lead to needless frustration.  

           Red Riding Hood isn't so little anymore.      

  Mixed in with the exploration are 
 some clever puzzles. The microphone is used well to further pull you into this world. For instance, 
 when exploring a haunted house, you'll have to blow some long-dormant spiderwebs out of the way. 
 There are also puzzles that don't require you to blow. In the Wild West, you light a trail of gunpowder 
 on fire to blast some boulders standing in your path. Although the puzzles are not difficult, they 
 provide a nice diversion from the combat and exploration. The visuals add another layer of charm. 
 The well-known characters here have been rendered as blocky but endearing humans. The combat also 
 looks impressive, showcasing long strings of moves that are as much fun to watch as they are to 
 tap along with. The colorful vistas sometimes obscure the lines that you have to tap during battles, 
 but the visuals have a lot of personality, making it fun just to see what you'll encounter next. 

  Zubo does a clever job of infusing rhythmic combat into otherwise standard RPG trappings, making 
 this adventure stand out from the crowd. The story doesn't live up to its impressive potential, 
 and there is too much backtracking in the expansive environments, but the combat is so fun and 
 engaging that the game is able to overcome those missteps. There are 55 different characters to 
 team up with as well as tons of different moves, so the combat dynamic continually evolves throughout 
 the quest. It's a shame that Zubo stumbles at times, but it does provide a breath of fresh air 
 in the genre.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cyberpixie
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Zubo- DS  EA Bright Light Studios, EA 2008
  
  Naaaa, naaaa, na naaaah, naa! *boom* *boom, spish, boom* Superbell! 
  Are you challenging me 
 to a dance-off?!?! *Grrrrrr*
  It's a dance off folks!!!!! It's the Thriller, the dance of healing, the juggling fart blast, and 
 my personal favourite, the hat trick complete with Zubo crushing giant cuboid cow, splat! There 
 are cuboid ducks too.
  
  If Run-DMC taught us anything, it's that the world would be a much better place if conflicts were 
 sorted out by dance-offs rather than, M16s, blood and nukes. Well, depends I guess but considering 
 how much this game made me laugh out loud (so strange to see it in full) it would be foolish to 
 not consider! Since rhythm games have made such an impact over the last 5 years or so it's surprising 
 that there haven't been more attempts at bringing them into adventure titles. Zubo is a bold and 
 colourful attempt at this with an entire battle system in an otherwise standard fair adventure 
 game based on rhythmic inputs. Not only this, but it also adds an innovative approach to one of 
 the most staid of genres: the RPG.
  
  Ok, hang on, I'll do bit of explaining first. In Zubo you play an unfortunate kid that's been sucked 
 into the fantasy world Zubalon populated with creatures known as Zubos. These odd, colourful Vauxhall 
 C'mon/ LEGO looking guys need your help in defeating the Zombos, fake Zubos. You must explore this 
 world collecting the 55 different Zubos through 10 different areas. The little guys are mostly 
 cute charactertures of famous icons Judy Nails, Robocop, Bruce Lee, James Bond, Alice, Thriller 
 Zombie, Indiana Jones to name a few. Each has their own move set most of which are totally, "the 
 lulz". As you successfully execute each rhythmic tap you lay into your opponent in a variety of 
 over the top slapstick ways. One move sees you blasting your adversary with a giant speaker amp, 
 while another charmingly has you farting in time to the music, with devastating results. Imagine 
 a giant Robocop Zubo beating the living snot out of Alice or the Bruce Lee Zubo performing a Trinity 
 style flying slow mo kick, followed by a Hadouken. These battles can also be played against a friend 
 in multiplayer mode, but you both need a cartridge (you create a party using the Zubos you've collected 
 in single player) so I'd didn't get a chance to try it out. All of this silliness is funked out 
 with great music during the battles which is evilly catchy and corresponds well to the moves, headphones 
 are a must have. Presentation and humour are abounds in this game. It had me in giggling like a 
 pixie when I tapped on a skull in the Horror zone, which started a Murray the Abominable Skull 
 laugh, oh yes. This game is very very silly and the humour will appeal to adults and children alike......
 
  
  However the adventure side of things are sadly not as interesting, with most events involving good 
 old "fetch the item" and "bash in the bad dudes" quests. The progression is very linear with a 
 bit of tedious back tracking via a hub system for good measure. There is also little reward for 
 searching the oddly empty gameworld which I found disappointing and finding nothing important to 
 collect other than the Zubos. This is all tied together with a pretty inconsequential story and 
 thin dialogue which brings the experience down a few pegs. Having said that it's not all uninspired, 
 there are some cool aspects to the puzzles which use the microphone and involve interacting with 
 the gameworld, "play back the tune" on a drum kit for example. It's just a little disappointing 
 after the hilarity of the energetic battles to be presented with such a dry adventure experience.
 
  
  The game has a great comic look and is fully touchscreen based which I salute, and the battle system 
 is responsive as a gamer on Jolt. However, exploring the maps can be frustrating with corners catching 
 your character, frequent loading screens and the inventory screen sometimes exiting for seemingly 
 no reason. This is especially annoying when feeding your party of Zubos to heal them. Sometimes 
 the camera angle is so far out, dropping that banana on the right Zubo can be tricky or not even 
 register. It's well worth it when you get it right though, there is something oddly satisfying 
 about watching the wee guys jump around in glee after a feed. A good point to make about the battle 
 system, which is basically a rock, paper stone system (fighter, defence, performer) with status 
 aliments, is that it is very simple. While it is hugely amusing, the level of difficulty is not 
 high and tactics rarely get more complex than using the right Zubo to counter the enemy. Just don't 
 expect Final Fantasy Tactics levels of difficulty here.
  
  Zubo is an interesting and fresh IP that will delight kids and adults with the ridiculous rhythm 
 battle system despite the ropey adventure elements. In the undoubtable sequel, if they can couple 
 the rhythm battles with a better adventure design this will potentially be a great game. As it 
 stands, if you're looking for a fun game to introduce a child to the world of RPGs, it gets a big 
 thumbs up. For the rest of us, steal it from said child for a quick blast and a well deserved giggle.
 
  
  Now, I must get back to my dance moves. I suspect that the apocalypse will involve drumnbass and 
 some hefty dubstep,.
  
  7/10
  
  18/11/2008  Niall Macdonald
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
